UK government looking at social media ‘app caps’ for children, minister suggests | Children | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
Kyle said new legislation on online safety being rolled out now could be strengthened further.
Photograph: Deborah Lee Rossiter/Alamy
View image in fullscreen
Kyle said new legislation on online safety being rolled out now could be strengthened further.
Photograph: Deborah Lee Rossiter/Alamy
Children
UK government looking at social media ‘app caps’ for children, minister suggests
Peter Kyle, understood to be considering two-hour curfews, says he wants to foster healthy relationships with tech
Rowena Mason
Whitehall editor
Sun 8 Jun 2025 12.28 CEST
Last modified on Sun 8 Jun 2025 15.27 CEST
Share
Ministers are looking at giving children an “app cap” or curfew to prevent them becoming addicted to social media, the technology secretary has indicated.
Peter Kyle, whose department is responsible for online safety, said he wanted to do more to protect children from excessive use of smartphones, and help them have a healthy relationship with technology.
He was pressed on the issue after
the Mirror
reported over the weekend that Kyle was looking at further restrictions. He is understood to be considering options such as two-hour curfews for social media apps, or blocks on children accessing content after 10pm or during school hours.
Asked on the BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg on Sunday whether he was looking at an “app cap”, Kyle said: “I’m looking at things that prevent healthy activity, I’m looking at some of the addictive nature of some of the apps and smartphones.
“I’m trying to think how we can break some of the addictive behaviour and incentivise more of the healthy developmental … and also the good communicative side of online life.”
He said he knew people felt strongly about protecting children and that new legislation on online safety, being rolled out now, could be strengthened further.
“This year we’ve had illegal content that needs to be taken down, but in July, age-appropriate material must be supplied by platforms, otherwise there’ll be criminal sanctions against them,” Kyle said. “And in this time, I’ve been looking very carefully about what we do next.
“I want to nail down harder on safety, but I want to use that safety for a purpose, which is to understand what is a healthy online life for children in the same way we understand what health means in the physical, offline world, and I’m trying to incentivise the behaviours and stop the barriers towards moving towards that healthy life.”
Kyle has previously backed away from the idea of a total social media ban for under-16s, saying it is “not on the cards” for now, but he has also said that all options are on the table in terms of discussing how to keep children safe from online harms.
Earlier this year, after opposition from ministers, the Labour MP Josh MacAlister
amended his private member’s bill
that had proposed raising the age of digital consent from 13 to 16, meaning social media companies would have required a parent’s permission to handle the data of a child under that age. The bill now commits the government to researching the issue further rather than implementing immediate change.
Nearly a quarter of children spend more than four hours a day on an internet-enabled device, a survey for the children’s commissioner suggested earlier this year.
A YouGov poll of 502 children in England aged eight to 15 found that 23% spent more than four hours a day using an internet-enabled device with a screen, such as a computer, phone, tablet or gaming console.
‘No smartphones before 14; no social media until 16’: The Anxious Generation author on how to fight back against big tech
Read more
One in four (25%) spent two to three hours a day on such a device, while a fifth (20%) spent three to four hours a day, according to the survey, which was carried out in March and April.
As well as Kyle’s proposals, the education secretary, Bridget Phillipson, is looking at the effects of smartphone bans in some schools in England, a policy idea supported by the National Education Union amid growing concerns about the impact of social media on children.
The current non-statutory guidance states that schools should prohibit the use of mobile phones throughout the school day, during lessons as well as at break and lunchtimes, but does not say how schools should enforce the bans.
While smartphones are very popular among children, there is also a backlash among some parents. The Smartphone Free Childhood campaign launched a “parent pact” in September in which signatories committed to
withhold handsets from their children
until at least the end of year 9, and to keep them off social media until they are 16.
Explore more on these topics
Children
Mobile phones
Social media
Digital media
Peter Kyle
Internet
news
Share
Reuse this content
More on this story
More on this story
‘No smartphones before 14; no social media until 16’: The Anxious Generation author on how to fight back against big tech
7 Jun 2025
‘My parents didn’t have a clue’: why many digital natives would not give their kids smartphones
25 May 2025
‘The crux of all evil’: what happened to the first city that tried to ban smartphones for under-14s?
7 May 2025
Children under six should avoid screen time, French medical experts say
1 May 2025
Tech overload for teachers and parents
21 Apr 2025
Madrid plans to limit computer and tablet use in primary schools to two hours a week
20 Mar 2025
France to tighten mobile phone ban in middle schools
10 Apr 2025
Pupils in England to be taught about online spending and scams
1 Apr 2025
Most viewed
Most viewed
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)