Children are starting school unable to sit up or hold a pencil – and I know the culprit | Kathryn Peckham | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
‘Instead of moving, children have been incentivised to sit quietly with a device.’
Photograph: Alex Segre/Alamy
View image in fullscreen
‘Instead of moving, children have been incentivised to sit quietly with a device.’
Photograph: Alex Segre/Alamy
Opinion
Smartphones
This article is more than
4 months old
Children are starting school unable to sit up or hold a pencil – and I know the culprit
This article is more than 4 months old
Kathryn Peckham
As an early years specialist, I’ve seen the drastic impact of screens replacing physical activity and face-to-face interaction
Tue 18 Feb 2025 15.02 CET
Last modified on Wed 19 Feb 2025 17.48 CET
Share
A
s an early years education specialist, over the past decade I have seen children enter classrooms with fewer and fewer of the skills needed to begin their formal education. The key culprit, in my opinion? Screen time.
On a child’s first day at school, it’s normal to expect a few nerves. But they should be able to move around confidently, pick up stationery, make new friends, build a relationship with their teacher and start to feel part of a wider community. Instead, a recent
survey reported
that some children in England and Wales are unable to sit up or hold a pencil. I have seen kids racked with separation anxiety and unable to form bonds. Upset and confused, they miss instructions and hold back or lash out. To a busy teacher this looks like a lack of ability, or a disruptive child to be managed.
Children are simply being set up to fail.
For a while, it seemed as if the pandemic might have been the culprit for delayed development. Lockdowns undeniably
had an impact
on the development of children raised during that period
as they were unable to play outside and interact with others, but five years on, it would seem that this was a short-term issue masking a much longer-term trend.
Lockdowns compounded habits that had already begun with the introduction of the first touch-screen phones. More and more parents relied on smartphones to work, organise their lives, shop, and keep in touch with friends and family. Burnt-out and distracted, they spent less time actively parenting. In turn, they handed their kids a device to keep them entertained. The result has been children growing up with less physical activity and face-to-face social interaction.
Imagine spending a year immobilised in a cast – your muscles would weaken and your movements would become awkward. Now, think about children missing foundational years of muscle development, when practice should be natural and constant, because, instead of moving, children have been incentivised to sit quietly with a device.
Children need opportunities to run, play, climb and explore. They need obstacles to move their bodies around, tunnels to crawl through, beams to balance over, and hula hoops to jump between. Every muscle and joint should be used as they develop balance and posture. This helps to forge the deep brain-body connections required for coordination and spatial awareness.
Cognitively, children are struggling because they are not having quality interactive time with their caregivers. A
cohort study
of Australian children aged 12 to 36 months found a negative association between screen time and parent-child talk. With fewer adult words spoken, there was a reduction in child vocalisations and the back-and-forth conversations crucial for language development and social skills. Devices are also having a behavioural impact, with
studies showing
a link between excessive screen time and emotional reactivity, aggression and externalising behaviours in children.
Labour gave us Sure Start to tackle child poverty. Now it should hike tax to keep it | Polly Toynbee
Read more
Even more worryingly, these outcomes are not being distributed equally among children; they affect those who already face significant disadvantages due to economic and racial inequality.
Research revealed
that Dutch children from lower socioeconomic backgrounds tend to have higher screen time and a
study from the US
examining sociodemographic factors found that Black children reported higher levels of various screen time activities compared with their peers. Interestingly, the researchers behind the US study made an association between limited access to safe recreational spaces and increased screen time. Our environments shape us, and it is clear that children need access to safe play spaces where they can experience socially interactive and physical play.
Some children are simply more vulnerable when starting school than others. Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, children and families, especially those with other disadvantages, would benefit from targeted parenting programmes and support. The main lesson I would give to parents is this: when screen time is used it should be interactive, with engaging discussions about the content to enhance learning and connect on-screen lessons to real-life situations, promoting a child’s cognitive and social development. We cannot turn back the tide of technology, but we can use it more mindfully.
Kathryn Peckham is an early childhood consultant, researcher, author and founder of Nurturing Childhoods
Explore more on these topics
Smartphones
Opinion
Early years education
Children's health
Children's tech
Mobile phones
Children's rights
Children
comment
Share
Reuse this content
Comments
(
…
)
Sign in
or
create your Guardian account
to join the discussion
Most viewed
Most viewed
Education
Schools
Teachers
Universities
Students
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)