They hoped their children’s deaths would bring change. Then a Colorado bill to protect kids online failed | Technology | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
4
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
World
UK
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
‘Several big tech firms registered official positions on the bill.’
Illustration: Andrei Cojocaru/Guardian
View image in fullscreen
‘Several big tech firms registered official positions on the bill.’
Illustration: Andrei Cojocaru/Guardian
Technology
They hoped their children’s deaths would bring change. Then a Colorado bill to protect kids online failed
Parents who lost children to online harms helped draft the bill – then watched it collapse under political pressure
Katie McQue
Mon 9 Jun 2025 16.00 CEST
Last modified on Mon 9 Jun 2025 16.01 CEST
Share
Bereaved parents saw their hopes for change dashed after a bill meant to protect children from sexual predators and drug dealers online died in the
Colorado
state legislature last month.
Several of those parents had helped shape the bill, including Lori Schott, whose 18-year-old daughter Annalee died by suicide in 2020 after consuming content on TikTok and Instagram about depression, anxiety and suicide.
“When the legislators failed to vote and pushed it off onto some fake calendar date where they’re not even in session, to not even have accountability for where they stand – as a parent, it’s a slap in the face,” said Schott, who identifies as a pro-second amendment Republican. “It’s a slap in the face of my daughter, and to other kids that we’ve lost.”
Had the legislation passed, it would have required social media platforms like
Facebook
,
Instagram
and
TikTok
to investigate and take down accounts engaged in gun or drug sales or in the sexual exploitation or trafficking of minors. It also mandated the creation of direct hotlines to tech company personnel for law enforcement and a 72-hour response window for police requests, a higher burden than under current law.
Additionally, platforms would have had to report on how many minors used their services, how often they did so, for how long and how much those young users engaged with content that violated company policies. Several big tech firms registered official positions on the bill. According to Colorado lobbying disclosures,
Meta
’s longtime in-state lobby firm, Headwater Strategies, is registered as a proponent for changing the bill.
Google
and TikTok also hired lobbyists to oppose it.
View image in fullscreen
‘[Legislators] chose big tech over protecting children and families.’
Illustration: Andrei Cojocaru/Guardian
“We’re just extremely disappointed,” said Kim Osterman, whose 18-year-old son Max died in 2021 after purchasing drugs spiked with fentanyl from a dealer he met on Snapchat. “[Legislators] chose big tech over protecting children and families.”
Colorado legislators agree to hold social media companies responsible for protecting children
Protections for users of social media (SB 25-086)
passed both chambers before being vetoed on 24 April by governor Jared Polis, a Democrat, who
cited the
bill’s potential to “erode privacy, freedom and innovation” as reasons for his veto. Colorado’s senate voted to override the veto on 25 April, yet those efforts fell apart on 28 April when the state house opted to delay the vote until after the legislative session ended, effectively blocking an override and keeping the bill alive.
The bill originally passed the senate by a 29-6 vote and the house by a 46-18 margin. On 25 April, the senate voted 29-6 to override Polis’s veto. Lawmakers anticipated that the house would take up the override later that day. At the time, according to those interviewed, there appeared to be enough bipartisan support to successfully overturn his veto.
“It was an easy vote for folks because of what we were voting on: protecting kids from social media companies,” said the senator Lindsey Daugherty, a Democrat and a co-sponsor of the bill. She said she urged house leadership to hold the vote Friday, but they declined: “The speaker knew the governor didn’t want us to do it on Friday, because they knew we would win.”
The parents who advocated for the bill attribute its failure to an unexpected, 11th-hour lobbying campaign by a
far-right gun owners’ association
in Colorado. Two state legislators as well as seven people involved in the legislative process echoed the parents’ claims.
An abnormal, last-minute campaign disrupts bipartisan consensus
Rocky Mountain Gun Owners (RMGO) cast the bill as an instrument of government censorship in texts and emails over the legislation’s provisions against “ghost guns”, untraceable weapons assembled from kits purchased online, which would have been prohibited.
RMGO launched massive social media and email campaigns urging its 200,000 members to contact their legislators to demand they vote against the bill. A source with knowledge of the workings of the Colorado state house described the gun group’s social media and text campaigns, encouraging Republicans voters to contact their legislators to demand opposition to the bill, as incessant.
“[Legislators] were getting countless calls and emails and being yelled at by activists. It was a full-fledged attack. There was a whole campaign saying: ‘This is a government censorship bill,’” they said.
The group’s actions were instrumental in a campaign to deter house Republicans from voting against the veto, resulting in the quashing of the bill, and unexpected from an organization that had been facing funding shortfalls, according to 10 people interviewed who were involved in the design of the bill and legislative process. Sources in the Colorado state house spoke to the Guardian on condition of anonymity out of fear of reprisal from RMGO.
The house had delayed the vote until 28 April, which allowed RMGO time to launch a campaign against the bill over the weekend. When lawmakers reconvened Monday, the house voted 51-13 to postpone the override until after the legislative session ended – effectively killing the effort.
View image in fullscreen
‘It was a full-fledged attack. There was a whole campaign saying: “This is a government censorship bill.”’
Illustration: Andrei Cojocaru/Guardian
The gun activists’ mass text message campaign to registered Republican voters asserted the social media bill would constitute an attempt to “compel social media companies to conduct mass surveillance of content posted on their platforms” to search for violations of Colorado’s gun laws, describing the bill as an attack on first and second amendment rights, according to texts seen by the Guardian.
A familiar, aggressive foe
Founded in 1996, RMGO claims to have a membership of more than
200,000 activists
. It is recognized as a
far-right group
that takes a “
no-compromise
” stance on gun rights.
Dudley Brown
, its founder and leader, also serves as the
president
of the National Association for Gun Rights, which
positions itself further to the right
than the National Rifle Association (NRA). RMGO has
mounted criticism against
the NRA for being too moderate and politically compromising. Critics have described RMGO as “
bullies
” and “extremists” because of its combative tactics, which include targeting and smearing
Democrats and moderate Republicans
. The group did not respond to requests for comment on its legislative efforts.
RMGO is a well-known presence at the Colorado capitol, typically opposing gun-control legislation. Daugherty described its typical campaign tactics as “scary”. She got rid of her X account after being singled out by the group over her work on a bill to ban assault weapons earlier this year.
“When we were running any of the gun bills at the capitol, they put my and some other legislators’ faces on their websites,” she said. A screenshot of a tweet from RMGO showed Daugherty with a red “traitor” stamp on her forehead.
The group’s campaign resulted in the spread of misinformation about the bill’s impact on gun ownership rights, sources involved in the legislative process said.
“The reason I was in support of the bill, and in support of the override, was it has to do with child trafficking and protecting the kids,” said the senator Rod Pelton, a Republican, who voted in favor of the veto override in the senate. “I just didn’t really buy into the whole second amendment argument.”
skip past newsletter promotion
Sign up to
TechScape
Free weekly newsletter
A weekly dive in to how technology is shaping our lives
Enter your email address
Sign up
Privacy Notice:
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our
Privacy Policy
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
after newsletter promotion
The bill had enjoyed the backing of all 23 of Colorado’s district attorneys as well as bipartisan state house support.
RMGO’s late-stage opposition to the social media bill marked a break from its usual playbook. The group generally weighs in on legislation earlier in the process, according to eight sources, including two of the bill’s co-sponsors, Daugherty and the representative Andy Boesenecker.
“They really ramped up their efforts,” Boesenecker said. “It was curious to me that their opposition came in very late and appeared to be very well funded at the end.”
In recent years, RMGO group had been less active due to well-documented money problems that limited its ability to campaign on legislative issues. In a 2024 interview, the group’s leaders stated plainly that it
struggled with funding
. Daugherty believes RMGO would not have been able to embark on such an apparently costly outreach campaign without a major infusion of cash. A major text campaign like the one launched for SB-86 was beyond their financial capacity, she said. Others in Colorado politics agreed.
“Rocky Mountain Gun Owners have not been important or effective in probably at least four years in the legislature. They’ve had no money, and then all of a sudden they had tons of money, funding their rise back into power,” said Dawn Reinfeld, executive director of
Blue Rising Together
, a Colorado-based non-profit focused on youth rights.
The campaign made legislators feel threatened, with primary elections in their districts over the weekend, Daugherty said, particularly after accounts on X, formerly Twitter, bombarded the bill’s supporters.
View image in fullscreen
‘The bill gave me hope that Avery’s legacy would be to help. So when it didn’t pass, it was pretty soul-crushing.’
Illustration: Andrei Cojocaru/Guardian
“Folks were worried about being primaried, mostly the Republicans, and that’s kind of what it came down to,” Daugherty said.
Aaron Ping’s 16-year-old son Avery died of an overdose in December after buying what he thought was ecstasy over Snapchat and receiving instead a substance laced with fentanyl. Ping saw the campaign against the bill as an intentional misconstrual of its intent.
“It was looking like the bill was going to pass, until all this misinformation about it taking away people’s gun rights because it addresses people buying illegal shadow guns off the internet,” he said.
Ping gave testimony in support of the bill in February before the first senate vote, alongside other bereaved parents, teens in recovery and a district attorney.
“The bill gave me hope that Avery’s legacy would be to help. So when it didn’t pass, it was pretty soul-crushing,” said Ping.
Battle lines drawn as US states take on big tech with online child safety bills
Read more
States take up online child-safety bills as federal lawmakers falter
Several states, including California, Maryland, Vermont, Minnesota, Hawaii, Illinois, New Mexico, South Carolina and Nevada, have introduced legislation aimed at improving online safety for children in the past two years. These efforts have faced strong resistance from the tech industry,
including heavy lobbying
and lawsuits.
Maryland became the first state to successfully pass a Kids Code bill, signing it into law in May 2024. But the victory may be short-lived: NetChoice, a tech industry coalition representing companies including Meta, Google and Amazon, quickly
launched a legal challenge
against the measure, which is ongoing.
Meanwhile, in the US federal government, the kids online safety act (Kosa), which had wound its way through the legislature for years, died in February when it
failed to pass in the House
after years of markups and votes. A
revamped version
of the bill was reintroduced to Congress on 14 May.
In California, a similar bill known as the age-appropriate design code act, modeled after UK legislation, was blocked in late 2023. A federal judge granted
NetChoice a preliminary injunction
, citing potential violations of the first amendment, which stopped the law from going into effect.
In the US, you can call or text the
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
on 988, chat on
988lifeline.org
, or
text HOME
to 741741 to connect with a crisis counselor. In the UK, the youth suicide charity
Papyrus
can be contacted on 0800 068 4141 or email
pat@papyrus-uk.org
, and in the UK and Ireland
Samaritans
can be contacted on freephone 116 123, or email
jo@samaritans.org
or
jo@samaritans.ie
. In Australia, the crisis support service
Lifeline
is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at
befrienders.org
Explore more on these topics
Technology
US politics
US gun control
Children
Social media
features
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
World
UK
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)