Children are speaking to strangers online – and grooming is on the rise. This is how to protect them | Devi Sridhar | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Illustration: Eleanor Shakespeare
View image in fullscreen
Illustration: Eleanor Shakespeare
Opinion
Children
This article is more than
1 month old
Children are speaking to strangers online – and grooming is on the rise. This is how to protect them
This article is more than 1 month old
Devi Sridhar
Parents are used to worrying about walking home alone and sleepovers, but games and messaging apps pose new risks
Wed 21 May 2025 07.00 CEST
Last modified on Wed 21 May 2025 11.19 CEST
Share
W
hen we look at what causes poor mental health, we often think of stress, genetics, poverty or loneliness. These are all contributing factors, but there’s another, more hidden cause that isn’t talked about enough: abuse, especially during childhood. I recall Chad Varah, the founder of Samaritans, reflecting that there were many things that drove people to call the charity’s suicide helpline. But abuse was a prominent reason.
Abuse isn’t an easy subject to raise or talk about. It brings up issues of gender dynamics – a colleague studying global sexual abuse told me: “The vast majority of perpetrators are men; the victims are equally boys and girls.” These are hard issues to think about, harder still to discuss and difficult to address. They challenge notions of safety, trust, family and community. But if we want to make progress in addressing poor mental health, we have to start here – with the truths we’d rather avoid.
The internet has fundamentally changed our world. Where once we worried about a child walking home from school alone or sleeping over at a friend’s house, now we have the entire online world to contend with. Grooming and exploitation no longer happen only in person – they happen on smartphones, in video games and through tablets handed over to keep kids entertained. And too often, the adults meant to protect children are far behind.
Recent research from
Childlight
, a child safety charity at the University of Edinburgh, has shown a steep rise in online grooming cases. It estimates that about 830,000 young people worldwide are at risk of social exploitation and abuse every day. This includes explicit photo sharing, sexual extortion, solicitation, deepfake images, pornography and grooming. Social media platforms, messaging apps and multiplayer games have become common avenues for abusers to target youngsters. They’ve been designed to be attractive and addictive to children, but largely without their safety in mind. And that puts the burden of protection unfairly on parents, many of whom don’t understand the risks – or aren’t even aware that they exist.
Take Roblox, a platform marketed as a child-friendly virtual playground. Behind its colourful, blocky graphics and simple games lies a reality far less innocent.
A recent study
examining interactions within the game found that through its open chat features, users were able to initiate contact with children as young as five, and were able to potentially speak with them over time before moving to other, less public platforms. Children could also see and hear sexual and suggestive content while playing various games. The researchers found that a test avatar registered to an adult could ask for a five-year-old’s test avatar’s Snapchat details on the platform. Just last month, a
California man
was accused of kidnapping and sexual conduct with a 10-year-old he met on Roblox. The surface looks benign. The danger lies underneath.
One thing that should be noted, too, is that even if physical contact never occurs, exposure to traumatic or sexually inappropriate content can still leave
lasting mental scars
. The internet and social media in particular have made it easier to access this kind of content, even if a child is never contacted by a coercive individual. Online abuse can take many forms, from exposure to sexual images and videos to inappropriate sexual and non-sexual language, extortion and solicitation.
In 2023, an estimated 19% of children aged 10 to 15 in England and Wales exchanged messages with someone online whom they had never met in real life.
Nearly a third of eight- to 17-year-olds who game online say
they chat to strangers
while gaming.
The vast majority of those interactions will be harmless, but when bad things do happen, many children feel isolated or unsupported: only half of children in a survey in England
told
their parents or teacher about harmful content they had seen online.
The same shame, confusion, fear and guilt that silences victims of abuse in the real world also mutes those suffering from exposure virtually.
That silence can be deadly.
Studies have shown
that children who are groomed or coerced online often suffer from anxiety, depression, PTSD and suicidal thoughts. According to Samaritans, children and young people with histories of abuse are at far higher risk of self-harm and suicide. Varah’s reflections underscore this: abuse, especially when unaddressed, can derail an entire life. But awareness is the first step towards prevention. We need to remove the stigma around abuse so that survivors of any age can speak up.
Timid new online safety laws won’t prevent more tragedies like the death of my daughter Molly | Ian Russell
Read more
We also need to better understand how quickly the landscape of risk is evolving. This means having open conversations with children, not just once but regularly. It means teaching them that they can talk to us about anything they see or experience online, without fear or shame.
Tech companies need to be regulated by government to be accountable for creating safer environments. Just leaving it to voluntary initiatives doesn’t seem to be enough.
On 25 July, the Online Safety Act will be
implemented in Britain
, with clear safety rules for platforms to protect young people from harmful content, online abuse and sexual material. It is an important step forward in treating this issue with the urgency it deserves – just as we would with any other public health threat.
While Samaritans continues its vital work supporting those in crisis, we owe it to our children to intervene earlier, to prevent that crisis from occurring in the first place. If we want to protect the mental health of young people, we need to start where the damage begins – and that means looking directly at the hard truths, online and off.
Prof Devi Sridhar is chair of global public health at the University of Edinburgh
Do you have an opinion on the issues raised in this article? If you would like to submit a response of up to 300 words by email to be considered for publication in our
letters
section, please
click here
.
Explore more on these topics
Children
Opinion
Online abuse
Internet
Social media
comment
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)