US officials challenge Ofcom over online safety laws’ impact on free speech | Ofcom | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Ofcom officials said the new rules were only in place to deal with explicitly illegal content, as well as material that could be harmful to children.
Photograph: True Images/Alamy
View image in fullscreen
Ofcom officials said the new rules were only in place to deal with explicitly illegal content, as well as material that could be harmful to children.
Photograph: True Images/Alamy
Ofcom
This article is more than
2 months old
US officials challenge Ofcom over online safety laws’ impact on free speech
This article is more than 2 months old
Exclusive:
State department said to have raised concerns over whether new act diminishes freedom of expression
Michael Savage
,
Daniel Boffey
and
Ben Quinn
Tue 1 Apr 2025 21.54 CEST
Last modified on Wed 2 Apr 2025 10.30 CEST
Share
US state department officials have challenged Britain’s communications regulator over the impact on freedom of expression created by new online safety laws, the Guardian understands.
A group of officials from the state department’s Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) recently met
Ofcom
in London. It is understood that they raised the issue of the new online safety act and how it risked infringing free speech.
The state department body later said the meeting was part of its initiative “to affirm the
US commitment to defending freedom of expression
, both in Europe and around the world”. During the meeting, Ofcom officials said the new rules were only in place to deal with explicitly illegal content, as well as material that could be harmful to children.
Ofcom rushes to close loophole that lets politicians act as newsreaders
Read more
Asked about the meeting, which is understood to have taken place in March, a state department spokesperson said: “As Vice-President Vance has said, we are concerned about freedom of expression in the United Kingdom. It is important that the UK respect and protect freedom of expression.”
Details of the meeting emerged after Jonathan Reynolds, the business secretary, denied that concerns over free speech had featured in tariff negotiations with the US. There had been reports that a deal could be jeopardised over the case of anti-abortion campaigner Livia Tossici-Bolt, who was prosecuted for an alleged breach of a safe access zone outside a Bournemouth abortion clinic. The verdict is expected on Friday.
It follows months of pressure from figures close to President Trump over free speech. Some have accused the UK government of failing to protect free expression, especially after the riots that took place last summer.
In February, the US vice-president, JD Vance, complained of
“infringements on free speech”
in the UK. Elon Musk, one of Trump’s closest allies, repeatedly claimed that some prison sentences handed down to people who incited the riots on X were a breach of free speech. X hosts accounts by figures including
Tommy Robinson
and
Andrew Tate
, who were accused of inciting people to join Islamophobic protests.
Since the riots last summer, the online safety act has been implemented as a way of regulating illegal online content. During a visit to the UK, the US state department team held meetings with Ofcom, the Foreign Office and the Alliance Defending Freedom (ADF), a US group that funds and campaigns on conservative issues.
Among the group was Samuel D Samson, who previously worked for US conservative organisations. He was appointed as a senior advisr at the DRL in January after Trump’s victory. On the day of last year’s US election, he tweeted: “Today we choose God over Pagan idols.”
He has previously taken a close interest in freedom of speech issues, writing about the topic in the
American Conservative magazine
. The DRL’s interest in Britain marks a pivot by an agency originally set up in the 1970s to advance democracy around the world against the backdrop of the cold war. Rather than Britain’s domestic affairs, the DRL’s advocacy has focused on the Middle East, Russia and China.
An Ofcom spokesperson said: “This meeting was part of Ofcom’s regular engagement with a range of international stakeholders seeking a factual briefing on how the online safety act works, in practice, to protect UK citizens.”
The online safety act applies to all sites and apps that publish user-made content, as well as large search engines. It lists 130 “priority offences”, which include issues such as child sexual abuse, terrorism and fraud.
Mark Jones, a partner at the law firm Payne Hicks Beach, said Ofcom was not “clamping down on free speech”. He said that in practice, it delegated to the platforms about how they monitor content, beyond illegal material. “An example is in relation to misogynistic and hypermasculine content,” he said. “Ofcom wrote to social media platforms to urge them to go ‘above and beyond’ their legal obligations under the online safety act, even though the content itself isn’t illegal.
“Free speech advocates say that this is going to bring about a culture of ‘if in doubt, cut it out’ as platforms seek to avoid being subject to Ofcom’s enforcement powers. On the other side, we have Musk and [Meta chief executive Mark] Zuckerberg who have spoken out about the online safety laws in the UK and ‘institutionalising censorship’. Duties in relation to misogynistic content, for example, are voluntary unlike the requirements to tackle illegal content and child safety.”
Explore more on these topics
Ofcom
Internet safety
Television industry
Freedom of speech
news
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)