FBI opens inquiry into 764, online group that sexually exploits and encourages minors to self-harm | US crime | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
World
Europe
US
Americas
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Africa
Inequality
Global development
The FBI is investigating alleged members of the 764 group who befriend minors and coerce them into creating disturbing materials.
Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
View image in fullscreen
The FBI is investigating alleged members of the 764 group who befriend minors and coerce them into creating disturbing materials.
Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
US crime
This article is more than
1 month old
FBI opens inquiry into 764, online group that sexually exploits and encourages minors to self-harm
This article is more than 1 month old
Agency is investigating 250 people affiliated with networks that manipulate and threaten young victims in cyberspace
Guardian reporter
Sun 11 May 2025 14.00 CEST
Last modified on Sun 11 May 2025 22.09 CEST
Share
The name of the group sounds innocuous enough: 764.
But the ordinary-seeming number hides one of the most disturbing trends in the US’s
criminal landscape
, disguising a brutal and sinister online group that exploits its victims in cyberspace and is now a top target for US law enforcement.
Last week, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (
FBI
) revealed it has opened investigations into 250 individuals affiliated with 764 and other online networks of predators who befriend minors and other vulnerable people and coerce them to create sexually explicit material and commit acts such as harming themselves or animals.
The federal agency has investigated the phenomenon since at least 2023 and
warned the public
about 764, a loose network of people that engage in violent, predatory behavior. The FBI reported that all its 55 field offices were investigating 764 and similar networks.
In 2024, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children’s CyberTipline received more than 1,300 reports connected to groups such as 764 that perpetrate sadistic online exploitation, a more than 200% increase from 2023,
according to the organization
.
TikTok knew its livestreaming feature allowed child exploitation, state lawsuit alleges
Read more
“It is really important that law enforcement is looking into the individuals that are perpetrating this abuse and seeing if they can have any successful investigations,” said Kathryn Rifenbark, the CyberTipline director.
The network started with Bradley Cadenhead, a teen in a zip code in Texas from which the 764 name is derived who played Minecraft and watched ultra-violent “gore” content online, according to an
investigation conducted
by Wired, Der Spiegel, Recorder and the Washington Post.
He created a Discord server called 764 to distribute child sexual abuse material and seek out vulnerable children. He and others on the server lured women into video chats and extorted them to cut themselves or perform live sexual acts, the news organizations reported.
In 2021, Discord identified 764 and its hundreds of users and reported them to law enforcement, according to the report.
Cadenhead was arrested and sentenced to 80 years in prison in 2023, but there are now predators in 764 and various splinter groups around the world.
In April, Leonidas Varagiannis, a 21-year-old US citizen in Greece, and Prasan Nepal, a 20-year-old in North Carolina, were arrested and charged for allegedly leading a “core subgroup” known as 764 Inferno in which they “ordered their victims to commit acts of self-harm and engaged in psychological torment and extreme violence against minors”, according to a
press release
from the justice department.
“The network is loosely coordinated based on individuals of like mind” who “wish to cause harm to other humans, especially kids”, said Ben Halpert, the founder and president of
Savvy Cyber Kids
, a group that aims to educate young people about cyber safety and ethics.
In November 2023, schools in Vernon, Connecticut, started receiving bomb threats and warnings of mass shootings, according to Thomas Van Tasel, a detective with the local police department.
It turned out a member of a 764 group had befriended a local teenage girl online and encouraged her to send sexually explicit and self-mutilation material. He then extorted her for information, including about a local teacher, which he used to make the threats, Van Tasel said. The local teen was also suspected of making bomb threats.
Eventually, the two broke up, and another person, who lived in Europe, started claiming he was the local teen during threats, which led police to her, Van Tasel said. The student had been on the honor roll most her life, according to her parents.
The police did not disclose her name because she was a minor when she helped the 764 member and they also considered her, in some part, a victim, which is common, Van Tasel said.
skip past newsletter promotion
Sign up to
Headlines US
Free newsletter
Get the most important US headlines and highlights emailed direct to you every morning
Enter your email address
Sign up
Privacy Notice:
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our
Privacy Policy
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
after newsletter promotion
“We were able to charge her with conspiring with others in the group to make these bomb threats, but ultimately, the biggest goal with her was to get her some treatment so that she herself could recover,” Van Tasel said.
Victims are often afraid to deny offenders’ requests or to report the predatory behavior because they worry the offenders will share their sexually explicit or self-mutilation videos or because the offenders know where they live and could “swat” them, Rifenbark said, referring to the practice of making fake calls to the police that provoke an armed response.
She is unsure whether the increase in reports of online exploitation is primarily because there are more victims or just greater reporting due to increased awareness of the predatory behavior, at least in part due to media coverage of 764.
FBI using polygraph tests to identify sources of internal leaks
Read more
Jessica S Tisch, the commissioner of the New York police department, and Rebecca Weiner, the department’s deputy commissioner for intelligence, also wrote this week in the
New York Post
that 764 and similar groups are “the stuff of nightmares, and dismantling these virulent networks is now a top national security priority across the United States and Europe”.
“Parents, do you know what your kids are doing online?” they wrote. “If not, the answer may terrify you.”
Van Tassel said he provided information on the person who preyed on the Connecticut teen – and someone he worked in partnership with – to the
FBI
, and the investigation is pending.
As to the local teen, Van Tassel said she is doing better and returning to the activities she was engaged in before getting caught up in 764.
He added: “Any victim that is part of this problem is looking at years of therapy.”
If you or someone you know is a victim of such exploitation, you can report it and get help at
https://report.cybertip.org
or by calling 1-800-843-5678.
Explore more on these topics
US crime
FBI
Children
Online abuse
Cyberbullying
Cybercrime
Law (US)
news
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
World
Europe
US
Americas
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Africa
Inequality
Global development
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)