UK police chiefs call for ban on social media for under-16s | Social media | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Sarah Crew, chief constable of Avon and Somerset, said: ‘It’s like the American west in the 1850s – there was a lot happening, it was expanding quickly, but there was little regulation.’
Photograph: Dean Lewins/AAP
View image in fullscreen
Sarah Crew, chief constable of Avon and Somerset, said: ‘It’s like the American west in the 1850s – there was a lot happening, it was expanding quickly, but there was little regulation.’
Photograph: Dean Lewins/AAP
Social media
This article is more than
2 months old
UK police chiefs call for ban on social media for under-16s
This article is more than 2 months old
Four senior officers say more controls needed, amid claims platforms are ‘fuelling and enabling’ crime
Daniel Lavelle
Sat 12 Apr 2025 12.59 CEST
Last modified on Sat 12 Apr 2025 13.19 CEST
Share
Senior UK police officers have called for the government to ban children under 16 from social media, amid claims the platforms are “fuelling and enabling” crime.
In the most recent development in the moral panic that has gripped the media since
Netflix’s Adolescence
was released,
four of the most senior policing figures in the country told the Times
that further controls on social media platforms were necessary for public safety, national security and young people’s mental health.
Sarah Crew, chief constable of Avon and Somerset and the National
Police
Chiefs’ Council lead on rape and serious sexual offences, told the Times that social media platforms were putting children at risk of exploitation and abuse. “Young people are by their nature vulnerable, and this gives those perpetrators who would want to do harm a really direct channel,” she said.
“It’s like the American west in the 1850s – there was a lot happening, and it was expanding quickly, but there was little regulation and law enforcement and codification … It sets norms in people’s minds about what’s acceptable and what’s not.”
Crew went on to liken the situation to a crisis such as the Covid pandemic “where all parts of the state and society and the voluntary sector came together and said: ‘Right this is a real problem.’”
Banning us from social media is ‘neither practical nor effective’, UK teenagers say
Read more
Maggie Blyth, acting chief constable of Gloucestershire and the national police lead for violence against women and girls, claimed that social media was “a significant threat not just to our children and young people but also to our society”. Blyth added: “We are seeing young people acting out violence and behaviour like strangulation because they see it online. There are horrific things that are being normalised.”
Blyth supported a ban alongside other measures such as improved education for children about the dangers of social media, noting that Australia “are ahead of the game”, referring to its
decision to ban social media for under-16s
last year.
Another chief constable, Tim De Meyer of Surrey police, said he was positive that social media is “fuelling and enabling crime”, arguing a ban for under-16s was crucial. “It just seems to me to be an absolute no-brainer that there should be much greater restrictions.”
Matt Jukes, the police head of counter-terrorism, pointed out that 20% of those arrested for terrorist offences last year were children. “Terrorist groups are now able to radicalise, to share instructions, to share their ideologies,” he told the commission. “The feature which has been driven most by the internet and by online radicalisation has been the emergence of young people in all of that casework.” Jukes added that the Online Safety Act, which has introduced additional safeguards for children and created new requirements for social media companies to actively remove illegal content from their platforms, does not provide adequate protection, saying it was necessary but “not sufficient”.
Neil Basu, a former assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, was also keen on banning social media for children. “I hear a lot of arguments that there is no connection between violent imagery and people committing violence. I don’t believe that for a moment after 30 years of policing … The idea that that has no effect seems utterly facile to me. So ban it, yes, and 16 seems reasonable to me.”
According to a
United Nations study
, the idea is not so facile. The UN found that there is “no clear evidence” that social media leads to more violent behaviour. “Violent radicalisation generally entails a number of tools and should be seen in the context of other communication platforms and significant social factors, such as the political, social, cultural, economic and psychological causes.”
When asked whether the government would consider a ban on under-16s using social media platforms, Yvette Cooper, the home secretary, told the Times’ earlier this year that “nothing can be off the table”.
Explore more on these topics
Social media
Police
Internet safety
Digital media
Crime
Children
news
Share
Reuse this content
More on this story
More on this story
Northamptonshire police apologise to Harry Dunn’s family for failures investigating his death
5d ago
Almost half of young people would prefer a world without internet, UK study finds
19 May 2025
Police leaders say they will struggle to fulfil Labour’s promise to recruit 13,000 officers
11 Jun 2025
Finland restricts use of mobile phones during school day
30 Apr 2025
Ofcom accused of prioritising interests of tech firms over child safety online
24 Apr 2025
Senior Essex police officer dismissed over sexual misconduct
18 Apr 2025
Misogynistic content driving UK boys to hunt vulnerable girls on suicide forums
12 Apr 2025
Adolescence writer Jack Thorne backs Smartphone Free Childhood group
23 Mar 2025
Somerset detective sacked for pretending to work from home
10 Apr 2025
Meta’s content moderation changes ‘hugely concerning’, says Molly Rose Foundation
28 Jan 2025
Most viewed
Most viewed
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)