Timid new online safety laws won’t prevent more tragedies like the death of my daughter Molly | Ian Russell | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Law enforcement agencies are clear that some young people are being groomed on video or live streams to commit violent acts against themselves and others.
Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA
View image in fullscreen
Law enforcement agencies are clear that some young people are being groomed on video or live streams to commit violent acts against themselves and others.
Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA
Opinion
Online abuse
This article is more than
3 months old
Timid new online safety laws won’t prevent more tragedies like the death of my daughter Molly
This article is more than 3 months old
Ian Russell
Ofcom’s cautious approach leaves vulnerable young people exposed to online threats such as suicide and self-harm
Sun 16 Mar 2025 09.30 CET
Last modified on Sun 16 Mar 2025 09.34 CET
Share
T
omorrow should be a watershed moment for children and families as the
Online Safety Act
comes into effect. But regrettably, it feels as if we are going backwards. The regulator Ofcom has decided to deploy timidity where ambition is needed. Rather than focusing on reducing harm and preventing tragedies, its approach seems aimed at minimising the economic costs for tech firms cleaning up the harm they have caused.
Instead of prioritising the fundamental principles of child safety, one minister indicated that the codes coming into force were consulted on to make them “judicial review proof”. Legal caution trumps children’s safety.
This is not what parliament envisaged when it passed the Online Safety Act. It is certainly not what bereaved families campaigned for. The new measures offer only cursory protection from suicide and self-harm content and demonstrate how
Ofcom
has failed to act quickly on the evolving and escalating online threats facing young people.
Teenagers are no longer at risk only from being exposed to suicide ideation and self-harm content by aggressive algorithms, a preventable harm that cost my daughter Molly her life. Vulnerable young people are now being targeted by appalling online groups, coercing them into self-harm and even suicide. The FBI has issued two warnings about these groups and last week warned of a “steep increase” in their activity. Europol and Canadian law enforcement have raised similar alarms.
Global law enforcement agencies are clear that some young people, often struggling with their mental health, are being groomed to commit violent acts against themselves and others on video or live streams. These groups are driven by the same “
fluid ideologies
” and violent motives that have been thrust into the spotlight by
Axel Rudakubana
and the horrific events in Southport.
Despite clear warnings about this growing threat, Ofcom has inexplicably chosen not to act. Tech companies won’t face a single targeted measure to tackle suicide and self-harm offences in the codes that can be enforced from tomorrow. Because of the structural weaknesses in the act, Ofcom wouldn’t be able to fix this error for another 18 months, even if it did decide to act.
Despite clear warnings about this growing threat, Ofcom has inexplicably chosen not to act
In the face of this inaction, the government should intervene. This is the message I delivered to the prime minister when we recently met. So far, this government has failed to grasp the nettle. The technology secretary, Peter Kyle, has issued ambiguous and confused promises to improve legislation he himself has described as
“unsatisfactory” and “uneven”
. In the face of urgent preventable harm happening on this government’s watch, last week he set out a vision for “piecemeal” improvements.
I want to be clear that the secretary of state’s inaction and inertia will cost more young lives. His proposals are the sticking-plaster politics that the prime minister has rightly said he rejects. Bereaved parents are now losing trust in Kyle. We very much believe the public is on our side –
85% of parents want stronger
laws. Parents want the government to act decisively on the side of children and families.
A decision to fix and strengthen the Online Safety Act also makes economic sense. The government’s economic modelling shows that stronger regulation, which reduces exposure to online harm by 15%, could deliver an economic return of
£4bn every year
. Online safety is not just good for society; it is also good for growth.
Of course, there are those who refute this, putting the free expression of platforms over reasonable and necessary measures to protect children from harm. Among them is a hawkish White House, which has issued an executive order that instructs officials to “recommend appropriate actions to counter” the Online Safety Act.
I’m increasingly concerned that the government could stall further vital online safety measures to appease the White House, dodge tariffs or even chase a trade deal. But UK parents are watching, too. They do not want their children’s safety jeopardised by an exported agenda written by tech libertarians and JD Vance. They expect to be heard by their own government. Polling shows that
nine in 10
people support policies that prioritise children’s safety online, even if it means tech companies investing significantly less in the UK.
Parents will judge the prime minister by how he responds to the preventable harm that is now happening on his watch. They will judge him harshly if he fails this crucial test. But they will also stand by him and cheer him on if he takes decisive action to ensure online safety for children.
Ian Russell is an internet safety campaigner and chair of the Molly Rose Foundation
Do you have an opinion on the issues raised in this article? If you would like to submit a response of up to 300 words by email to be considered for publication in our
letters
section, please
click here
.
Explore more on these topics
Online abuse
Opinion
Children
Social media
Digital media
Children's health
Ofcom
comment
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)