Society may have overestimated risk of the ‘manosphere’, UK researchers say | Men | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
The study involved 38 men, and more misogynistic men may have declined to take part. Boys under 16 were also not included.
Photograph: Westend61/Getty
View image in fullscreen
The study involved 38 men, and more misogynistic men may have declined to take part. Boys under 16 were also not included.
Photograph: Westend61/Getty
Men
Society may have overestimated risk of the ‘manosphere’, UK researchers say
Many who engage are ‘discriminating and value-driven’, with a minority consuming ‘extremely misogynistic content’, study for Ofcom suggests
Robert Booth
UK technology editor
Fri 13 Jun 2025 14.20 CEST
First published on Fri 13 Jun 2025 13.49 CEST
Share
Men who engage in the online “manosphere” and the content of
Andrew Tate
are often able to express a “strong commitment to equal treatment and fairness”, according to research commissioned by Ofcom.
Prompted by growing concerns about internet misogyny, researchers for the UK communications regulator followed the journeys of dozens of men through online content ranging from the US podcaster Joe Rogan to forums for “
incels
” (involuntary celibates). They found that while a minority encountered “extremely misogynistic content”, many users of the manosphere were critically engaged, selective and capable of discarding messages that did not resonate with their values.
They found it was far from a unified community: many participants felt the various subcultures under the manosphere umbrella were misunderstood, with extreme misogyny being grouped with benign self-improvement content. Several participants were drawn to it by its perceived humour, open debate and irreverence as well as connecting with views they found about traditional gender roles and family dynamics.
“This research does challenge the assumptions about the experiences and perceptions of individuals consuming manosphere content,”
Ofcom
said.
“Many of the participants expressed a strong commitment to equal treatment and fairness. They showed particular sensitivity to situations they perceived as unjust or discriminatory. This extended to issues specifically concerning men.”
The report’s author, Damon De Ionno, the managing director of Revealing Reality, which was commissioned by Ofcom to produce the study, separately told the Guardian it “suggests society has overestimated” the risk posed by the manosphere.
It comes after
rising violence
against women and girls (VAWG) in England and Wales. Data published by the National Police Chiefs’ Council
in July 2024
found that about 3,000 VAWG offences a day were recorded by the police in 2022-23, an increase of 37% since 2018, with one in every 12 women a victim each year.
Beyond Andrew Tate: the imitators who help promote misogyny online
Read more
Separate expert studies have found some evidence that the language of the manosphere can escalate into physical violence. A
submission to parliament
by a group of UK academics cited cases in which incels had gone on to commit offline acts of violence, including Elliot Rodger in Isla Vista, California, in 2014 and Jake Davison in Plymouth, England, in 2021.
The Ofcom study involved 38 men, and more misogynistic men may have declined to take part. Some potential recruits refused to take part, considering the government-appointed regulator to be part of the “mainstream”. Perhaps the most impressionable group, boys under 16, were also not included.
The study investigated several manosphere subcultures, including “
red pill
” (men who believe the world is unfair to men) and “black pill” (those who believe unattractive men have very limited options for relationships) communities, incels, “
men going their own way
” (MGTOW), men’s rights activists,
pickup artists
and “looksmaxxing” groups (where young men share tips about
achieving chiselled cheekbones or “hunter eyes”
in an attempt to boost their sexual “market value”), as well as topics surrounding self-improvement, masculinity and gender politics.
Some of the content trawled for the study was obviously misogynistic, including posts condoning sexual violence against women. In other cases the misogyny was more ambiguous, such as self-help posts about boosting sexual success based on assumptions about women’s sexual preferences.
All of the men had engaged with content from Tate, the self-styled misogynist influencer who is facing charges in Britain including rape, human trafficking and controlling prostitution for gain, which he denies.
But one participant said they viewed watching clips of Tate as “entertainment” akin to watching a horror movie or playing Call of Duty, and the researchers said none of the interviewees had agreed with Tate’s most extreme misogyny.
Incel communities contained the most extremely misogynistic content, the Ofcom study found. They were notably full of messages promoting depressive and suicidal outlooks.
“Our research suggests society has overestimated the risk of the manosphere to women,” said De Ionno. “It’s not zero risk, but most of it doesn’t have the power to radicalise people who are pretty discriminating and value-driven.”
The research examined the attitudes of men who had become involved in several different corners of the manosphere from relatively mainstream content creators such as Piers Morgan to more niche groups such as those that talk about being “red pilled”.
‘Incel’ accounts using self-improvement language to avoid TikTok bans – study
Read more
One was the MGTOW movement, which discusses living without women. It has been described as misogynistic, but Ofcom’s interviewees insisted it was not because it was about choosing to live without women, not hating them.
One survey participant’s pathway into the MGTOW part of the manosphere began with him being intentionally misidentified as a child’s biological father, known as paternity fraud. Richard became involved in supporting other victims and came to believe that “feminist ideology runs through” the courts system. He stopped dating and said: “Once you’ve red-pilled about all this, you can’t unsee it.”
Another man, Matt, said the MGTOW influencers “prey on any … amount of bitterness and resentment you have in your life from a negative situation”.
Ofcom said: “A minority of participants described encountering extremely misogynistic content online – with the most extreme examples more likely to be found on closed groups or among incel communities.
“These spaces were also notably full of messages promoting ‘black pill’ concepts of self-loathing and hopelessness, as well as depressive and even suicidal outlooks. Participants that were more socially isolated offline tended to have greater depth of engagement within these closed communities, and so may be at greater risk of adopting harmful views or mindsets, due to their strong group identity and the individual’s wider vulnerability.”
Explore more on these topics
Men
Social media
Violence against women and girls
Andrew Tate
Joe Rogan
Ofcom
Internet
news
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed
Most viewed
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)