Misogynistic content driving UK boys to hunt vulnerable girls on suicide forums | Police | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Matt Jukes, Britain’s head of counter-terrorism, said the taskforce would tackle online communities and hunt for those viewing material inciting sexual abuse.
Photograph: Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty Images
View image in fullscreen
Matt Jukes, Britain’s head of counter-terrorism, said the taskforce would tackle online communities and hunt for those viewing material inciting sexual abuse.
Photograph: Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty Images
Police
This article is more than
2 months old
Misogynistic content driving UK boys to hunt vulnerable girls on suicide forums
This article is more than 2 months old
Exclusive: Police set up taskforce to tackle online violence as young men seek victims on eating disorder forums
Vikram Dodd
Police and crime correspondent
Sat 12 Apr 2025 08.00 CEST
Last modified on Sat 12 Apr 2025 09.52 CEST
Share
Young men and boys fuelled by “strongly misogynistic” online material are hunting for vulnerable women and girls to exploit on websites such as eating disorder and suicide forums, senior officers have said.
The threat from young males wanting to carry out serious harm is so serious that counter-terrorism officers are joining the National Crime Agency (NCA) in the hunt for them, fearing they could go on to attack or kill.
Britain’s head of counter-terrorism, Matt Jukes, told the Guardian that a joint taskforce would be set up between his force and the NCA to tackle those fixated with violence online, in what he called a “decisive moment”.
Jukes, the Metropolitan police force’s assistant commissioner for specialist operations, said the new pairing would look for those consuming online material about killings or sexual abuse. Those who might go on to plot school shootings and other mass attacks, as well as those who encouraged women and girls to harm themselves, would also fall under their remit.
The new taskforce will also tackle so-called
com networks
(online communities), which counter-terrorism policing (CTP) and the NCA said involved hundreds of boys and young men. They will also hunt for those viewing material inciting sexual abuse.
The decision to pool the efforts of CTP and the NCA is being driven by the fear that it might be impossible to tell whether an obsession with violence and gore could turn into terrorism, a school massacre or other serious attack until it was too late.
Jukes, who is expected to be a candidate for the deputy commissionership of the Met, said: “What we’ve seen over the years is the characteristics of those cases looking increasingly similar.”
Com networks grew sixfold between 2022 and 2024 and are mainly young males joining together online to carry out hacking exercises and hunt for victims to steer into sexual abuse or worse.
James Babbage, the director general of threats for the NCA, said com networks were believed to have hundreds of people in the UK alone.
“We think they’re mostly doing it for kudos, for notoriety … within their peer group online,” he said. “In general, they are looking for victims who are already vulnerable. So they are looking at sort of suicidal ideation sites. They’re looking at eating disorders forums.”
Jukes said: “Young people who might have felt very isolated in some of their ideas and interests might never even have thought of some of the things which they’re now accessing … so people are getting both content and validation.
“We’re going to go after the com networks. We are going to go after those who appear to be administrating and facilitating them.”
The boost to the hunt for potentially violent young males comes after
the Guardian revealed
that the Southport attacker who murdered three girls at a dance class last July had been referred and rejected three times by the Prevent programme.
Prevent exists to identify those at risk of supporting terrorist violence. The Southport attacker had shown insufficient signs of ideological extremism but did have an interest in violence, including school massacres.
Babbage said: “The violence-fixated individuals that are coming up on the radar for terrorism policing, the tech-enabled violence against women and girls that police are seeing and the com networks that we’re seeing engaged in child sexual abuse and cybercrime – to some degree, this sort of young male community, it’s sort of the same threat.
“People are spinning up and radicalising and getting into more extreme harm, and might spin out and end up presenting as any one of those things.”
The material driving the young males to view horrific material and to potentially offend “has a very significant dose of misogyny in it”, Babbage added.
Jukes said the internet had “turbocharged” material triggering resentment among some young men: “In com networks and in terrorist networks, the idea that the interests of men and boys have been relegated, and the interests of women have been elevated, leads directly to violent misogyny.”
He said there were “technological and engineering” solutions to the crisis, and that big tech could help by stopping the algorithms pushing extreme content to youngpeople who wanted it. They could also aid police in helping to detect young people searching for violent content.
Jukes added: “The scale we’re talking about is beyond human intervention. There are too many users, too much traffic.”
In the UK and Ireland,
Samaritans
can be contacted on freephone 116 123, or email
jo@samaritans.org
or
jo@samaritans.ie
. In the US, you can call or text the
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
on 988, chat on
988lifeline.org
, or
text HOME
to 741741 to connect with a crisis counselor. In Australia, the crisis support service
Lifeline
is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at
befrienders.org
Information and support for anyone affected by rape or sexual abuse issues is available from the following organisations. In the UK,
Rape Crisis
offers support on 0808 500 2222 in England and Wales, 0808 801 0302 in
Scotland
, or 0800 0246 991 in
Northern Ireland
. In the US,
Rainn
offers support on 800-656-4673. In Australia, support is available at
1800Respect
(1800 737 732). Other international helplines can be found at
ibiblio.org/rcip/internl.html
Explore more on these topics
Police
UK security and counter-terrorism
Internet safety
Young people
Violence against women and girls
Social media
news
Share
Reuse this content
More on this story
More on this story
Northamptonshire police apologise to Harry Dunn’s family for failures investigating his death
5d ago
Scottish ministers drop plans to outlaw misogyny and conversion practices
2 May 2025
Police leaders say they will struggle to fulfil Labour’s promise to recruit 13,000 officers
11 Jun 2025
Beyond Andrew Tate: the imitators who help promote misogyny online
19 Mar 2025
Senior Essex police officer dismissed over sexual misconduct
18 Apr 2025
UK police chiefs call for ban on social media for under-16s
12 Apr 2025
Tackling misogyny is vital, London mayor tells primary schools
18 Oct 2024
Can the UK fight ‘extreme misogyny’ as if it were terrorism? I have my doubts
29 Aug 2024
Somerset detective sacked for pretending to work from home
10 Apr 2025
Tackling misogyny in UK schools could take up to 20 years, says Jess Phillips
24 Jul 2024
Most viewed
Most viewed
UK
UK politics
Education
Media
Society
Law
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)