Rest of Europe should follow Denmark’s lead in banning phones in schools, says expert | Denmark | The Guardian
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Close dialogue
1
/
1
Next image
Previous image
Toggle caption
Skip to navigation
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Eur
Europe edition
UK edition
US edition
Australia edition
International edition
The Guardian - Back to home
The Guardian
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
Hide expanded menu
News
View all News
World news
UK news
Climate crisis
Ukraine
Environment
Science
Global development
Football
Tech
Business
Obituaries
Opinion
View all Opinion
The Guardian view
Columnists
Cartoons
Opinion videos
Letters
Sport
View all Sport
Football
Cricket
Rugby union
Tennis
Cycling
F1
Golf
US sports
Culture
View all Culture
Books
Music
TV & radio
Art & design
Film
Games
Classical
Stage
Lifestyle
View all Lifestyle
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Love & sex
Health & fitness
Home & garden
Women
Men
Family
Travel
Money
Search input
google-search
Search
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
Guardian Weekly
Crosswords
Wordiply
Corrections
Tips
Search input
google-search
Search
Search jobs
Holidays
Digital Archive
Guardian Licensing
About Us
World
Europe
US
Americas
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Africa
Inequality
Global development
Denmark’s wellbeing commission said children under 13 should not have their own smartphone or tablet.
Photograph: Lbeddoe/Alamy
View image in fullscreen
Denmark’s wellbeing commission said children under 13 should not have their own smartphone or tablet.
Photograph: Lbeddoe/Alamy
Denmark
This article is more than
3 months old
Rest of Europe should follow Denmark’s lead in banning phones in schools, says expert
This article is more than 3 months old
Chair of Danish wellbeing commission says whole continent should halt digitalisation of children’s lives
Miranda Bryant
in Copenhagen
Wed 5 Mar 2025 17.55 CET
Last modified on Wed 5 Mar 2025 19.19 CET
Share
The whole of Europe should follow Denmark’s lead by banning mobile phones from schools to stop them from being “colonised by digital platforms”, the chair of the country’s wellbeing commission has said.
Removing mobile phones from schools gave young people a “pause” from online life, teaching them how to be part of analogue communities and train their attention spans, said Rasmus Meyer, who led the government commission to investigate growing dissatisfaction among children and young people.
The commission’s report, published last month, raised the alarm over the digitalisation of the lives of children and young people.
Among its 35 recommendations
was a change in legislation to ban phones from schools and after-school clubs – which the government has said it will impose across all
folkeskole
(comprehensive primary and lower secondary schools). The commission also said children under 13 should not have their own smartphone or tablet.
In an interview with the Guardian, Meyer said all European countries should ban mobile phones in schools and called for EU regulation on it, adding: “And if we find out in five years that it was better with the phones, we can reintroduce them. But I don’t think that will be the case.”
Schools should be phone-free “to give young people a pause from online life, to teach them how to be in analogue communities and to train their attention ability … It’s also a way of guarding schools and respecting them as important institutions in our society that shouldn’t be colonised by these digital platforms.”
Children who were not allowed to have phones in schools had better attention spans, he said, and were better at playing with one another and were quieter during lessons.
Spending time together away from their phones at school, it is hoped, will help “train” children in how to be around their peers outside school.
School phone bans alone do not improve grades or wellbeing, says UK study
Read more
“These developments have happened so fast that we, as a society, have been behind. This is our attempt to get ahead of the development and push back against this commercialised digitalisation of children’s lives,” Meyer said.
“You can see it as a pushback, or a way of guarding the childhood against technologies that have been proven to damage a lot of kids’ self-esteem and attention.”
The commission found that 94% of young people in Denmark had a social media profile before they turned 13 – despite that being the minimum age for many social media platforms – and that nine- to 14-year-olds spent an average of three hours a day on TikTok and YouTube.
Despite a clear connection between many of the problems affecting young children and young people – including with attention and self-esteem – many children in Denmark and across Europe are still permitted to take them into school.
Meyer said: “We wouldn’t allow kids to bring their PlayStation into the classroom, but that is what really happens on a daily basis when we allow them to bring in their phone.”
skip past newsletter promotion
Sign up to
This is Europe
Free weekly newsletter
The most pressing stories and debates for Europeans – from identity to economics to the environment
Enter your email address
Sign up
Privacy Notice:
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our
Privacy Policy
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
after newsletter promotion
Children’s safety online was often overlooked, he said. “It’s really shocking that we … accept that a lot of kids are spending 8-10 hours a day on their phones. We are very focused on their security in the physical world, but we have kind of given up online as parents and as a society.”
Skolen på Grundtvigsvej in Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, has been mobile-free since 2018. The school’s headteacher, Helle Bjerg, said: “It’s very simple: you’re not allowed to have your phone on you during school hours. When you enter the school all phones are gathered and when the school day ends you are give your phone again.”
As a result, she said, children did not have their attention lured away by phones and they talked to one another more. But with much learning material digitalised, they still have issues with school computers.
At their after-school club, in a big house nearby, children are allowed to keep their phones on them but are discouraged from using them. A sign on the door tells children they are entering a mobile-free zone, urging them to “give yourself a good break from your mobile phone”. In slightly starker terms, it warns: “Mobiles aren’t going away, but friendship networks can.”
Standing at the kitchen counter surrounded by freshly baked buns, the school and club pedagogue Hjalte Petersen said mobile-free children played together more. “Many years ago, we had no rules about screens of any kinds, and many kids were just sitting on their own with their own telephone,” he said. “Many were just in their own world.”
Taking phones away encouraged interaction. “If you take the screen away, obviously you have to do something else to not get bored and play together.”
Explore more on these topics
Denmark
Mobile phones
Children's health
Mental health
Health
Consumer affairs
Europe
news
Share
Reuse this content
More on this story
More on this story
Safer phones bill aimed at young teens watered down after minister opposition
5 Mar 2025
Almost half of young people would prefer a world without internet, UK study finds
19 May 2025
UK government looking at social media ‘app caps’ for children, minister suggests
8 Jun 2025
Banning us from social media is ‘neither practical nor effective’, UK teenagers say
27 Mar 2025
‘No smartphones before 14; no social media until 16’: The Anxious Generation author on how to fight back against big tech
7 Jun 2025
‘My parents didn’t have a clue’: why many digital natives would not give their kids smartphones
25 May 2025
Labour to scrutinise school smartphone bans as pressure grows over impact on teenagers
21 Mar 2025
Denmark to ban mobile phones in schools and after-school clubs
25 Feb 2025
Smartphones should carry health warning, Spanish government told
3 Dec 2024
‘The crux of all evil’: what happened to the first city that tried to ban smartphones for under-14s?
7 May 2025
Most viewed
Most viewed
World
Europe
US
Americas
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Africa
Inequality
Global development
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Tips
Back to top
©
2025
Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
(dcr)