Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

There have been calls for Northern Ireland to improve its "outdated" approach to suicide and adopt a "preventable deaths tracker" currently being used in England and Wales.

The tracker estimates that one in five deaths there are avoidable each year – that's over 125,000.

Sarah Jane Campbell, service manager at The Well Suicide Prevention, believes Northern Ireland is outdated when it comes to its approach to dealing with suicide.

In 2023, Complete Mind Solutions reported there were 221 suicide deaths in Northern Ireland.

"We cannot keep doing the same stuff and expecting different results, it's not working," she said.

"Regardless of our stats, all of our suicide prevention services are exasperated, everyone is nearly at the point of crisis themselves.

"So, it's about informing policy, getting the right money to the right services at the right time."

Ms Campbell said she was keen to meet the justice and health ministers to see if a preventable deaths tracker could be put in place.

Paul McArdle attempted suicide six years ago and spoke about his experience of drug addiction and suicidal thoughts, and how he overcame them.

"I went through addiction for 21 years, my life was turmoil, it started off as fun and ended up bringing me to the depths of depression, the lowest parts of my life," he said.

"I didn't want to live any more, I didn't see any hope and I just wanted to finish it.

"But thankfully I was one of the lucky ones."

Deirdre Maguire's father took his own life when he was 72. She works as a mind wellness specialist and said her personal journey became a "professional passion".

"I had seen what this pain had done to me, so I wanted to make sure no one else ever had to suffer the way had," she said.

"I sought help myself and then I studied and learnt more about how the mind and body works and today I've helped thousands of people improve their own lives."