Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

UK parents are worried that screen time is taking over family life and damaging their children’s physical health, yet young people say they feel more confident online and their “digital wellbeing” has improved, according to a major survey.

More than half of parents (57%) who took part in the survey said they thought screen use was having an adverse effect on their child’s sleep, while nearly two-thirds (63%) said it had a negative impact on health, up from 58% last year.

Although parents were more anxious, their children provided a more positive view of their lives online, and reported feeling safer, more confident, more independent and empowered. 

The report highlights the growing number of children being messaged online by strangers, particularly girls who are significantly more likely to experience the harms of being online. Almost half of 15- to 16-year-old girls reported being contacted by people they did not know, up from three in 10 a year earlier, while overall two-thirds of participating children (67%) reported harmful experiences online.

Carolyn Bunting, the co-CEO of Internet Matters, said: “Parents need to ask how families can get the balance right between the time spent online and time spent offline, and whether they are always setting the best example for their children when it comes to using phones and other tech devices.”

Dame Rachel de Souza, the children’s commissioner for England, said: “Over the last few months, I have been travelling all over England as part of my Big Ambition survey asking children and young people about what they want the next government to do and one issue that came up as being a big concern was online safety.

Children who took part in the survey felt less affected by online harms than they did last year. A quarter (24%) saw racist, homophobic, or sexist content as really upsetting or scary, down from 35%, while one in 10 (9%) saw content promoting unrealistic body types as upsetting, down from 22%.

Two-thirds (65%) of children said spending time online makes them feel mostly happy and 75% viewed technology and the internet as important to their independence. Almost a quarter of children, however, admitted their online activities were having a physical impact, including fatigue, concentration difficulties, vision problems and poor posture.