Here is the news article with only the main text:

TV presenter Jess Davies was just 15 years old when images of her in her underwear were shared around her town. She had exchanged photos with a boy she fancied, and he had forwarded them on to others without her consent.

She was in art class when her phone started buzzing with messages from older boys. "Nice pictures," read one. "I didn't think you were that type of girl," came another.

"It turns out my images had been Bluetoothed around the whole sixth form centre, which quickly got shared around my school, then around my hometown and eventually ended up on the phones of the men's football team in the town," said Jess.

Jess says we are facing a "pandemic of misogyny" which is not being taken seriously. "It's a small town so people knew who I was and knew I was underage and yet still flashed my images around to people that were in their 20s or 30s," Jess said.

Eventually news of the images reached her grandmother who told her parents. This was to be the first of several incidents Jess experienced in her teens and 20s that would later inform her women's rights campaigning.

Her 2022 BBC documentary Deepfake Porn: Could You Be Next? was used to lobby the UK government to criminalise sexually explicit deepfakes in the Online Safety Act.

Now she has written a book, No One Wants To See Your D*ck: A Handbook for Survival in the Digital World, for which she has had to explore everything from sexual harassment to cyber-flashing and catfishing, and tells of men on well-known, easy-to-access forums requesting explicit deepfakes of their mothers and teachers.

Others are uploading explicit photos of women they know and asking other men to write rape fantasies about them, Jess said. "These aren't some weirdos in their mum's basement who are chronically online, never leave their homes and don't have a social life, no, these are people's friends and people's husbands," said Jess.

"There's a generation that's growing up online and it's a generation who don't see women as whole humans who have rights. It's a pandemic of misogyny that is unfolding online and isn't being taken seriously."

Jess says victims-blaming remains rife. "So much shame is put on the victim. It's like, 'why did you take that? Why did you share that?' I'm like, 'why did someone share that without my consent? And why are grown adult men passing it around?'."

Three years later Jess was a glamour model. She said it was an attempt to "reclaim a bit of power back". "You've all seen my images, you all have this idea of me, so why not make some money out of this and make a career out of it?" she explained.

When she started out modelling she decided she was only going to do lingerie and swimwear shoots - but she said this was also taken out of her control.

Jess says men need to stop being defensive and call out bad behaviour in other men. "I always get in my [social media] comments, 'not all men'. Of course, not all men - but you're just shutting down the conversation," she said.

"Instead of being defensive, actually listen to women... read books by women, listen to podcasts that are presented by women, watch documentaries that are presented by women."

She said parents also needed to be more "switched on". "If Adolescence shocked you that's shocking to me, because that's basic, basic level stuff," she said. "That is skimming the surface of what's happening in these spaces."