Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

British politics is stuck in a loop, and it's Farage's vision that's stuck on repeat. Unlike Keir Starmer and his cabinet, Reform UK's leader actually understands and exploits the rules of engagement in our digital age.

Nigel Farage recently visited south Wales and made a case for reopening the town's steel-making blast furnaces, before admitting that it might be easier to build a new one, though he also acknowledged that it would cost in the low billions to do so. He also had dizzying visions of reopened Welsh mines. "If you offer people well-paying jobs … many will take them," said Farage, "even though you have to accept that mining is dangerous."

The climate crisis was not worth considering. He also did not offer any opinions about coal-related issues such as slag heaps, land slips, rivers that run black, and unimaginable underground disasters. When he was asked where new pits might be located, he blithely offered the opinion that it "comes down to geology".

The whole thing was politics on the level of pub bullshit, but Farage and his people presumably knew that. What mattered was the resulting spectacle: Britain's foremost populist proposing to "reindustrialise" Wales, in the face of entirely reasonable doubts, mockery and outright opposition from voices easily maligned as the usual distant elites.

The basic social and economic conditions that fed into the rise of the UK Independence party and the Brexit referendum remain unchanged. Britain is still a country of anaemic growth and productivity, ongoing local austerity, stagnant wages and fear of the future. Those conditions explain people's ever-deepening disdain for mainstream politicians, and their sense that as life constantly goes round in circles, Westminster does not seem able or willing to break the pattern.

Farage attracts supporters by offering himself as an answer to that feeling – but to those who recoil from him, he is the source of it. Like Donald Trump, that combination makes him a very zeitgeisty politician.

Farage's presence on social media has changed what is required to be a successful public figure. He has 1.3 million TikTok followers, as many as every other Westminster politician combined. Particularly since Elon Musk turned Twitter into X, he is regularly cited and praised in the parallel news universe that millions of people now take their information from – full of scurrilous rumours and explanations for events rooted in QAnon-like conspiracies.

His key asset is a diagnosis of people's problems that gets simpler and sharper by the week: you are scared and struggling, he and his allies tell the public, because the government spends too much money on foreigners and is full of privileged and snobby people who know nothing of your pain.

The Greater Manchester mayor Andy Burnham recently gave an interview to the centre-left journal Renewal, in which he mused on what effective political communication now entails. The governments led by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, he said, operated in “a world of nuance”, but social media “just ended all of that”. What he said next sounded like a brisk answer to why Farage is winning: our modern means of communication, he said, “changed politics, and politics hasn’t changed enough to reflect that … people want instant opinions from elected representatives. They want authentic opinions”.

Six weeks ago I watched Farage do a walkabout in a neighbourhood of Scunthorpe, surrounded by crowds of people jostling to take pictures of him on their phones. Not long after he had been presented with an Airfix tank, he commented that all the attention was “the benefit of just being real, you know what I mean?” Clearly, just like Boris Johnson in his pomp, a great deal of his persona – the clothes, the pints, every calculated pronouncement – is actually affectation and pretence. But politics is now so low on charisma and the common touch that simply being comfortable in your own skin looks like a kind of spectacular normality.

In that sense, Starmer and Labour’s other high-ups might be Farage’s ideal adversaries. With the possible exception of Angela Rayner, they are mostly bloodless and hesitant. They cling on to a presentational style that is 20 years out of date, built around pre-ordained news themes on the proverbial “grid”, set-piece interviews, and complicated and chronically abstract rhetoric: “missions”, “renewal”, the constant chase for growth.