Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

The FBI is investigating alleged members of the 764 group who befriend minors and coerce them into creating disturbing materials.

The group, which started with a teen in Texas, has been found to exploit and manipulate minors online, coercing them to create sexually explicit material and commit acts of self-harm. The FBI has opened investigations into 250 individuals affiliated with the group and other online networks of predators.

In 2024, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's CyberTipline received more than 1,300 reports connected to groups like 764, a 200% increase from 2023.

The network started with Bradley Cadenhead, a teen who created a Discord server called 764 to distribute child sexual abuse material and seek out vulnerable children. He and others on the server lured women into video chats and extorted them to cut themselves or perform live sexual acts.

Cadenhead was arrested and sentenced to 80 years in prison in 2023, but there are now predators in 764 and various splinter groups around the world.

In April, two individuals were arrested and charged for allegedly leading a "core subgroup" known as 764 Inferno, in which they "ordered their victims to commit acts of self-harm and engaged in psychological torment and extreme violence against minors".

The network is loosely coordinated based on individuals of like mind who wish to cause harm to other humans, especially kids.

In November 2023, schools in Vernon, Connecticut, started receiving bomb threats and warnings of mass shootings after a member of a 764 group befriended a local teenage girl online and encouraged her to send sexually explicit and self-mutilation material.

Victims are often afraid to deny offenders' requests or to report the predatory behavior because they worry the offenders will share their sexually explicit or self-mutilation videos or because the offenders know where they live and could "swat" them.

If you or someone you know is a victim of such exploitation, you can report it and get help at https://report.cybertip.org or by calling 1-800-843-5678.