Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

The US is still a great democracy, but a lesser one than it was four months ago. The constitution has not been rewritten. Checks and balances have not been dissolved. The difference is a president who ignores those constraints, and the impotence of the institutions that should enforce them.

By claiming that any regulation is censorship, the White House is bullying Britain to abandon online safety laws and digital taxes. The US vice-president, JD Vance, has denounced Britain, alongside other European democracies, as a hotbed of anti-Christian prejudice and endemic censorship.

The Online Safety Act, which makes social media companies, websites and search engines responsible for “harmful content” published on their platforms, is a target of the US administration. The law focuses on unambiguously nasty stuff – incitement to violence, terrorism, race hate, encouraging suicide, child abuse images. Technology companies are required to have systems for removing such content.

The US state department has raised the Online Safety Act in line with the Trump administration’s mission “to affirm the US commitment to defending freedom of expression in Europe and around the world”. The UK’s digital services tax, which aims to clamp down on international tech companies avoiding tax by hiding their profits offshore, could also be up for negotiation.

The White House has been flagged well in advance, with Trump signing a “memorandum to defend US companies and innovators from extortion overseas”. The administration promised to take a dim view of any attempt to raise taxes from US tech companies and any use of “products and technology in ways that undermine free speech or foster censorship”.

Regulation that impedes the operation of US digital behemoths – anything short of blanket permission to do as they please – will apparently be treated as a hostile act and an affront to human liberty. This is an imperial demand for market access cynically camouflaged in the language of universal rights.