Here is the news article with unnecessary parts removed:

"Nude photos of me were posted online after phone hack", woman tells BBC

When Jane was told by someone she knew that there were nude photos of her on an image-sharing website, she was in complete shock. Users had left crude and misogynistic comments under the photos. Some were urging the posters to upload more images of her.

"I couldn't believe it," Jane told the BBC. "Men were getting sexual gratification from pictures of me that I hadn't consented to being shared."

Jane, whose name has been changed for this article, is one of more than a dozen women in the same area of England who had their social media accounts hacked two years ago. The BBC understands all of them have had intimate images - which were originally sent in private direct messages on social media - posted on the same website.

Some of the women's names have been posted alongside their photos. Two of the women were under 18 when the images were taken, meaning legally, they would also be classed as indecent images of children.

Jane later discovered some of the photos of the other women had also been posted on different sites too.

"It makes me feel very angry that somebody's taking ownership over content that I thought was mine and was sent privately," Jane said. "I feel really exposed... It's disgusting."

It is a criminal offence to post intimate pictures of someone online without their consent, punishable with up to two years in prison.

Jane is now calling on media regulator Ofcom to investigate using its powers under the Online Safety Act. The law lists 130 "priority offences" that companies should focus on preventing, including the non-consensual posting of intimate images.

Tessa Gregory, a partner at the law firm Leigh Day, is representing Jane in her appeal to Ofcom. She told the BBC that the Revenge Porn Helpline, which supports adults who experience intimate image abuse, helped Jane track down the images by carrying out reverse image searches online and contacting pornographic sites on her behalf.

Ms Gregory said she now wants Ofcom to "take swift and decisive action" against the sites. Ofcom, she said, is supposed to make an announcement online when they begin an investigation.

"We're asking if they're already investigating this issue, because it seems so prevalent we would expect them to be, but we have found no evidence that they are," Ms Gregory said.

She added that she and Jane want Ofcom to take action not just against the sites hosting the images, but also against the search engines directing people to those sites.

Ofcom told the BBC it was aware of Jane's case and that it was "considering any appropriate next steps".