Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

Height is often seen as a dealbreaker when it comes to romance, particularly within heterosexual relationships. When Tinder recently said that it was trialling a feature that allows some premium users to filter potential matches by height, it quickly proved controversial.

Stuart, who is in his 50s and from the Midlands, says: “I’ve experimented with not putting my height on my dating profile, or lying about it just to see, and the number of likes I get shoots up massively.” At 5ft 7in, Stuart is just two inches below the UK and US male average height of 5ft 9in, but a height filter would probably prevent him from receiving as many matches.

Since height is such a sticking point, it’s no surprise that some apps, including Bumble and Hinge, already allow users to filter by this metric. A recent YouGov poll found that most Britons think being able to filter by height is acceptable; it was least popular with under-30s, of whom 36% were not in favour of height filters, compared with 26% of the wider public.

Tinder has been quick to point out that height is a paid preference feature being trialled in select markets, not including the UK. It is also not a hard filter; profiles that don’t match the selected height criteria will not be blocked outright.

One Guardian reader who wishes to remain anonymous says: “I am a tall woman – 6ft without shoes – and dating is a challenge, because I am only attracted to men who are taller than me. This is not a question of vanity, or of wanting to be seen with a man who is more alpha or impressive … holding hands with and hugging a shorter man feels like I’m being affectionate with a child.”

Jo, 33, who is 5ft 10in and from Northern Ireland, is also “most comfortable” with partners who are 6ft and above. “While I’ve had a deeply meaningful relationship with someone shorter than me, I realised over time that I didn’t enjoy the physical dynamic of feeling like I was towering over my partner,” she says.

Research has confirmed the idea that taller men are seen as having an advantage when it comes to social status, access to resources and heritable fitness. In Bhattacharya’s experience, this holds across most cultures, although genetic predisposition to attributes such as height and strength can vary globally.

Anna Machin, an anthropologist, agrees that the search for a taller man is partly down to an “evolutionary drive”. But, she says, studies on non-western populations have found variable outcomes. Within the Tsimané people of the Bolivian Amazon, for example, “while men prefer the male to be taller, the women are not bothered”. This implies that there is “a major cultural element to our western preference for men to be taller”.

Michael, 31, who is 5ft 2in and from Hampshire, thinks it’s reasonable for women to want to date someone taller, but believes that being able to filter by height when using a dating app is a bad idea. “Even the most generous, inclusive person is unlikely to select the whole range that’s offered, even if they don’t care about it or would be willing to look past it for the right person,” he says.

Jenny, 40, who is 5ft 10in and from Sacramento, California, believes that prioritising height is a “remnant of caveman days when you had to rely on someone larger than yourself to protect you and your offspring”. Her husband, whom she met at work, is 5ft 7in – but height, she says, is just a number. “I’d prefer someone shorter who protects me emotionally and provides psychological safety,” she says.