Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

A teenager involved in a Satanist terror network targeting children online for sexual blackmail and violence has been jailed for six years at the Old Bailey. Cameron Finnigan pleaded guilty to encouraging suicide, possessing a terrorism manual, and indecent images of a child.

The court heard the 19-year-old from Horsham was part of an extreme right-wing Satanist group called 764, which anti-terror police warn poses "an immense threat". At least four British teenagers have been arrested in connection with the activities of the group, which has blackmailed children - mainly girls - into carrying out sexual acts, harming themselves or even attempting suicide.

Finnigan was arrested in March 2024 after police received information that he had a gun. No firearm was found at his home but after analysing his digital devices, officers found online chats where he encouraged one young female, believed to be in Italy, to livestream her own suicide.

In online chats Finnigan boasted to other members of 764 about his attempts to get children to hurt themselves. Det Ch Supt Claire Finlay, head of Counter Terrorism Policing South East, says the members competed to see who was the most extreme: "If you can get someone to self-harm, you're doing quite well in that group. If you can get them to kill themselves, you're reaching the pinnacle."

An 11-page PDF document was also found on Finnigan's computer, giving detailed instructions on how to carry out a "mass casualty" terrorist attack using a lorry, firearm or knives. And on the Telegram messaging platform, he and other members plotted what they called "terror week".

The 764 network was founded in 2020 by a US teenager, Bradley Cadenhead, who was then 15. It is believed to be named after the partial postal code of his hometown in Texas. Police say it is part of a loose, international network of far-right extremist groups that have adopted what officers call "militant accelerationist ideology".

Those who have researched the groups say they seek to destroy modern, civilised society by committing depraved acts of violence and sexual exploitation - often involving children. Cadenhead was arrested in 2021 and is now serving an 80-year prison sentence in Texas for the creation of videos in which children were not only being sexually abused, but also choked, beaten, suffocated and seriously injured.

The network uses Nazi and Satanist imagery. Finnigan, who went by the online username "Acid", adorned his bedroom in West Sussex with swastikas and pentagrams. In one online post, he wrote: "Acid is Hitler's child".

Counter Terrorism Policing South East has issued a warning about 764, saying it "uses threats, blackmail, and manipulation to control the victims into recording or live-streaming self-harm, sexually explicit acts, and/or suicide".

Arrests related to 764 have been made for child abuse, kidnapping and murder in at least eight countries, including the UK. The BBC has found online that 764 is still active worldwide and has seen messages where group members boast about their exploits, sharing photos and videos of their victims.

Members of 764 shared disturbing video images, including child and animal abuse, and coerced victims into sharing explicit pictures of themselves, and self-harming on camera.