Here is the news article with unnecessary parts removed:

Law enforcement agencies are clear that some young people are being groomed on video or live streams to commit violent acts against themselves and others.

Tomorrow should be a watershed moment for children and families as the Online Safety Act comes into effect. But regrettably, it feels as if we are going backwards. The regulator Ofcom has decided to deploy timidity where ambition is needed. Rather than focusing on reducing harm and preventing tragedies, its approach seems aimed at minimising the economic costs for tech firms cleaning up the harm they have caused.

Instead of prioritising the fundamental principles of child safety, one minister indicated that the codes coming into force were consulted on to make them “judicial review proof”. Legal caution trumps children’s safety.

Teenagers are no longer at risk only from being exposed to suicide ideation and self-harm content by aggressive algorithms, a preventable harm that cost my daughter Molly her life. Vulnerable young people are now being targeted by appalling online groups, coercing them into self-harm and even suicide. The FBI has issued two warnings about these groups and last week warned of a “steep increase” in their activity. Europol and Canadian law enforcement have raised similar alarms.

Global law enforcement agencies are clear that some young people, often struggling with their mental health, are being groomed to commit violent acts against themselves and others on video or live streams. These groups are driven by the same “fluid ideologies” and violent motives that have been thrust into the spotlight by Axel Rudakubana and the horrific events in Southport.

Despite clear warnings about this growing threat, Ofcom has inexplicably chosen not to act. Tech companies won’t face a single targeted measure to tackle suicide and self-harm offences in the codes that can be enforced from tomorrow. Because of the structural weaknesses in the act, Ofcom wouldn’t be able to fix this error for another 18 months, even if it did decide to act.

I want to be clear that the secretary of state’s inaction and inertia will cost more young lives. His proposals are the sticking-plaster politics that the prime minister has rightly said he rejects. Bereaved parents are now losing trust in Kyle. We very much believe the public is on our side – 85% of parents want stronger laws. Parents want the government to act decisively on the side of children and families.

A decision to fix and strengthen the Online Safety Act also makes economic sense. The government’s economic modelling shows that stronger regulation, which reduces exposure to online harm by 15%, could deliver an economic return of £4bn every year. Online safety is not just good for society; it is also good for growth.