Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

Most dating apps have been forced to bolster their safety measures in recent years due to a litany of complaints of online abuse as well as negligence when handling reports of sexual violence. Several of them are now taking steps to combat this and encourage users to verify their identities to ensure everyone is who they say they are. Typically, this is done with facial recognition technology by asking users to take a video selfie or provide a photo ID that the app uses to compare with the photos used in their profile. Many have also introduced features to help users stay safe, including block and report systems alongside bans on sexual harassment, fetishisation and hate speech.

Still, there are precautions to be taken whenever you agree to meet someone you’ve spoken to online, like meeting in public places and withholding any private information. Here are more top tips for staying safe.

Ask the right questions. You want to strike the right balance between flirting and getting to know someone to build trust. “Try asking how they like to communicate or what they’re passionate about to see if it’s going to be a fun adventure or if you could end up hurt,” advises Alice Hoddinott, education and wellbeing specialist at Brook, the sexual health and wellbeing charity. “Don’t ignore red flags and trust your instincts.”

Those red flags could be anything from scant profile details to highly edited photos. “This indicates a possible scammer,” says Dr Emma Turley, senior lecturer in criminology at Central Queensland University and a chartered psychologist with the British Psychological Society. “Other red flags could be fast-tracked intimacy accompanied by pressure to move conversations off the dating app and on to other platforms. The other major red flag is around requests for money and/or personal information. This often comes in the form of stories of personal hardship. Scammers will take time to build trust before asking for money or personal information, and it can be very subtle.”

Take breaks. “It’s easy to get swept up in swiping, chatting and constantly checking your phone – but remember, dating apps are just one part of your life,” says Brook’s Hoddinott. “If things start feeling overwhelming or you’re noticing it’s affecting your self-esteem, it’s OK to log off. Taking a break doesn’t mean giving up – it’s a way of looking after your mental health and keeping all parts of your life safe.”

Keep conversations on the apps until you feel comfortable. “It is common for scammers to try to move conversations off the dating app as soon as possible to avoid detection,” says Ann Austin at the Online Dating and Discovery Association. “It makes sense to move off the dating app eventually, but don’t feel rushed to take the conversation away too soon and make the most of the added security the dating services offer within their messaging services.”

Weed out AI images. “Scammers are very good at love bombing, so it’s important not to feel rushed and to take your time to get to know the person behind the profile, just like you would if you met them in a bar or at the gym,” says Austin. “You can use Google image search or check their social media to see if the details match. AI images are becoming more sophisticated, so also be wary if there’s no online presence at all.”

Enlist the help of family and friends. Even if you have been chatting to someone for a week or two, it’s a good idea to talk to someone you’re close to about them before agreeing to meet, just to ensure you haven’t missed any glaring red flags. “Sometimes it’s someone not closely involved who can see things that you are unable to, and they can offer some useful advice,” says Austin.

As for the date itself, be sure to meet in a public place with good lighting and people nearby. “Tell a friend or family member where you’re going and who you’re meeting, and what time you expect to be back,” says Turley, who also suggests sharing your live location with a friend or family member using your phone for the duration of the date. “Have a plan to get home independently, and if someone makes you feel unsafe, it’s OK to leave the date.”