Here is the news article with unnecessary parts removed:

Three young children huddle in front of a camera, cross-legged and cupping their hands. “Please support me. We are very poor,” says a boy, staring down the lens.

They appear to be in a mud-brick hut in Afghanistan, living in extreme poverty. But their live stream is reaching viewers in the UK and worldwide – via TikTok Live.

For hours, they beg for virtual “gifts” that can later be exchanged for money. When they get one, they clap politely. On another live stream, a girl jumps up and shouts: “Thank you, we love you!” after receiving a digital rose from a woman in the US, who bought it from TikTok for about 1p. By the time it’s cashed out it could be worth less than a third of a penny.

TikTok says it bans child begging and other forms of begging it considers exploitative, and says it has strict policies on users who go live. But an investigation has found the practice widespread. Begging live streams are actively promoted by the algorithm and TikTok profits from the content, taking fees and commission of up to 70%.

Olivier de Schutter, the UN special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, called the trend a “shocking development” and accused TikTok and middlemen of “profiting from people’s misery”. “Taking a cut of people’s suffering is nothing short of digital predation. I urge TikTok to take immediate action and enforce its own policies on exploitative begging and seriously question the ‘commission’ it is taking from the world’s most vulnerable people,” he said.

Analysis conducted between January and April 2025 found evidence of live-begging and related behaviour in countries including Indonesia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Egypt and Kenya.

Many of the live streams showed families begging in domestic settings. But some streams appeared to bear the hallmarks of organised begging.

One account, which broadcasts almost every day, regularly features different children. During a broadcast in February, it showed seven young boys begging for digital gifts. The next day, different boys appeared in the same spot, sitting alongside the same two adults. After being alerted to the account by the Observer, TikTok suspended it within two hours. A previous report through the in-app reporting tool had not resulted in any action.

Another account with 5,300 followers featured an elderly man in a wheelchair. The account appears to be run by a third party but there is no information about their identity. The account description says “poor people” followed by crying face emojis.

Beyond begging, live streams have featured people doing degrading and sometimes dangerous stunts in exchange for virtual gifts, such as hitting themselves, staying awake for long periods, covering themselves in mud, or sleeping on camera. One Indonesian live stream showed two young girls lying on a tiled floor in a small, windowless, white-walled studio. On Friday, the same account was broadcasting a live stream of a man asleep on the same tiled floor.

Another broadcast from Pakistan showed three men sitting in the dark with plastic buckets and party hats on their heads. They appeared to fall asleep on camera, only waking when they received a gift to perform a dance.

Novita Anggraeni, an Indonesia-based social inclusion expert at the charity Care International, said many creators used TikTok Live to “show their talent” or “connect with people”. It is commonly used by people who film themselves singing, dancing, playing video games, painting or cooking. But, she said, it was increasingly being misused by those who saw it as a “shortcut to making money”, and that “harmful” videos showing begging and related behaviour had “very rapidly grown”. “It’s a whole new form of exploitation,” she added.