Here is the news article with unnecessary parts removed:

A self-professed “goddess coach” called Jaelyn posted an eight hour-long “sleep affirmation” video which, according to many a satisfied viewer, has worked wonders for them. In a somewhat sultry, meditative voice she repeats mantras and welcomes her listeners to attract “the kind of men and people who will always treat you like a goddess”.

This video is one of many in a genre of content that is booming on YouTube and social media. I call them “guru girlies”, and they are proving a force to be reckoned with. In their rather austere imparting of wisdom, guru girlies have become many young women’s go-to guide for all manner of modern conundrums.

The spectrum of gurus is vast, but their advice is mainly focused on the idea of “levelling up”. From your diet to dressing better to your choice in friends or men, if you want to live your dream life, self-improvement is the prerequisite; the comprehensive physical, financial and spiritual sine qua non that any woman needs to become her best and dream self.

When it comes to the physical, gurus give detailed insight on how to glow up and rebrand your life, often using themselves as examples of how, given the right mindset and Pinterest boards, they were able to lose weight, reduce acne, stay on trend and become a modern standard of beauty that social media sits before in awe.

Spiritually, guru girlies are invariably enamoured with manifestation techniques, subliminal messaging and the universe’s seeming interest in giving us every abundance if only we’d ask it to. If you are feeling unfulfilled, it’s time to access your divine feminine energy.

Financially, gurus typically see men as a means to a life of wealth and abundance. Creators such as Leticia Padua, known by her devoted following as SheraSeven, claims that because all men cheat (“it’s just a matter of time”), it’s important for women to find the cheater with the most money.

This financial levelling up – a mindset that involves distinguishing between high-value, provider men and what Shera calls “dusties” – has proved highly popular. And that’s because at the root of all this content is a brewing disappointment that many a young woman, scrolling through her social media and navigating a rapidly changing modern world, is bound to feel.

Guru girlies are there to bridge the gap between your disappointing reality and the ideal they purport to embody, right before you onscreen. This is done by submitting to the system, not as an act of defeat but as empowerment. Arguably the most well-known guru, Thewizardliz (known as Liz) is a case in point. “Start expecting good treatment, start expecting to be spoiled, start expecting him to give you money,” she instructs in a video.

However, just last week, a four-months pregnant Liz accused her “provider” husband, YouTuber and software CEO Landon Nickerson of messaging another woman. In all of this, there is no doubt an addictive nature to self-improvement that explains why a new guru, delivering the same old message, seems to blow up every other week.