Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headings removed:

Rachel de Souza, the children’s commissioner for England, says young people cannot be expected to police the internet. De Souza said she warned Ofcom last year that its proposals for protecting children under the Online Safety Act were too weak. New codes of practice issued by the watchdog on Thursday have ignored her concerns, she said.

“I made it very clear last year that its proposals were not strong enough to protect children from the multitude of harms they are exposed to online every day,” de Souza said. “I am disappointed to see this code has not been significantly strengthened and seems to prioritise the business interests of technology companies over children’s safety.”

De Souza, whose government-created role promotes and protects the rights of children, said she had received the views of more than 1 million young people, who said the online world was one of their biggest concerns. The codes of practice would not allay those fears, she said. “If companies can’t make online spaces safe for children, then they shouldn’t be in them. Children should not be expected to police the online world themselves.”

Measures announced by Ofcom include requiring social media platforms to deploy “highly effective” age checks to identify under-18s, ensuring algorithms filter out harmful material, making all sites and apps have procedures for taking down dangerous content quickly, and ensuring children must have a “straightforward” way to report content.

From 25 July, sites and apps covered by the codes must implement those changes – or use other “effective measures” – and risk fines for breaching the act. The measures apply to sites and apps used by children, ranging from social media to search and gaming.

The Molly Rose Foundation, a charity established by the family of the British teenager who took her own life after viewing harmful online content, also criticised the measures, which it said were “overly cautious”. The foundation said flaws in the codes included a lack of annual harm reduction targets.

Beeban Kidron, a crossbench peer and online safety campaigner, said the measures would mean “significant changes” to what children see in their feeds in terms of content related to pornography, suicide, self-harm and eating disorders, but the approach of Ofcom was “timid and unambitious”.

Ofcom rejected de Souza’s criticism. “We don’t recognise this characterisation of our rules, which will be transformational in shaping a safer life online for children in the UK,” said a spokesperson.

Melanie Dawes, Ofcom’s chief executive, said the measures were a “reset” and companies failing to act would face enforcement. “They will mean safer social media feeds with less harmful and dangerous content, protections from being contacted by strangers and effective age checks on adult content,” she added.