Moscow's intelligence services have launched a new type of attack on the west, violent but piecemeal and hard to prove. The campaign of sabotage, arson and disinformation against Europe is carried out by people recruited online and often paid in cryptocurrency. Some know exactly what they are doing and why, others do not realise they are ultimately working for Moscow.

In Lithuania, an Ikea shop was set on fire; in Britain, seven people were charged over an arson attack on a business with links to Ukraine; in France, five coffins inscribed with the words “French soldiers in Ukraine” were left under the Eiffel Tower; in Estonia, the car windows of the interior minister and a local journalist were smashed. There have been numerous suspicious fires in Poland, including one that destroyed a huge shopping centre in Warsaw.

The acts are carried out by people who are recruited online and often paid in cryptocurrency. Some know exactly what they are doing and why, others do not realise they are ultimately working for Moscow. The professional intelligence officers who direct the operations never need to leave Russian territory.

One case involved a Ukrainian refugee, Serhiy, who was detained in Poland with firelighter cubes, a juice bottle filled with paraffin, a lighter, two pocket knives, a mini handsaw and a face mask in his backpack. He had been recruited online by a man called Alexei, who was later revealed to be a staff officer of the GRU, Russia's military intelligence service.

The campaign of sabotage is believed to be orchestrated by the GRU, which has been forced to adapt its tactics after the expulsion of hundreds of Russian intelligence officers from European countries. The unit has been folded into a bigger GRU department and is still run by its longstanding chief, Andrei Averyanov.

The strategic aim of the campaign is to sow discord and insecurity, targeting soft targets that influence a general perception of insecurity in society. The way Moscow recruits operatives and selects targets varies from country to country, but often involves using Telegram to communicate with recruits.

The possibility that anyone looking for odd jobs on Telegram could be signing up for Russian intelligence missions sparks surveillance and privacy dilemmas reminiscent of counter-terrorism work, as authorities scramble to catch potential perpetrators before they act.