Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

A daughter took "revenge" on a woman who had an affair with her father by posting intimate photos of her on an escort website, a court heard.

Eleanor Brown, 24, is on trial at Leeds Crown Court accused of two counts of disclosing a private photo or film without consent, intending to cause distress.

The court heard Ms Brown uploaded the photos to the website in 2022 along with the phone number of the married woman's husband for people to contact.

Ms Brown's father had an affair with the woman more than 10 years ago while both of them were married. It is alleged that the affair came to light in 2015 when the defendant's mother emailed the intimate photos and videos the woman had shared during the affair to her husband.

Seven years later, between August and September 2022, Ms Brown posted "derogatory comments" about the woman on her husband's business' website, according to prosecutor Lucy Brown.

She is also accused of sending him intimate images of his wife via WhatsApp and posting photos of the woman on the escort website, causing her husband to be inundated with calls and messages.

The defendant's behaviour was "a mean and calculated effort to cause [the woman] distress in an act of revenge", the prosecution allege.

She allegedly messaged the woman's daughter, who did not know about the affair, and told her: "I will make sure your mum is never allowed to forget what she did to my family."

Giving evidence to the court, the woman said she experienced "a deep, sickening feeling of just complete panic" when she found out intimate photos of her had been posted online.

Her husband said he had also received abusive messages from the defendant after contacting her parents to ask her to stop, the court heard.

He told the trial he could "understand that [Ms Brown] was frustrated about what happened", but added: "I don't understand why she was hell-bent on trying to damage the business that I was running."