Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

Derek Guy, a popular fashion writer, revealed his family escaped to the US without documentation. It sent the far right into an online frenzy.

Guy, a fashion writer known for lampooning the sartorial decisions of rightwing figures, including JD Vance, has 1.3 million followers on the platform X. This week, both the vice-president of the United States and the Department of Homeland Security posted threats to deport him from the US – the country he has called home since he was a baby.

The threats targeted at Guy marked another alarming escalation in the White House’s ongoing project to mass deport millions of immigrants – raising the prospect of an administration wielding deportation as a weapon of retribution against its critics.

Guy’s story also laid bare the transformation of X. In a few short years, the platform has become a place where Maga and other far-right influencers not only rule the roost, but can see their trollish posts perhaps dictate policy.

Guy felt compelled to stand up and be counted. In a long post on X, he recounted his family’s harrowing story of escaping war in Vietnam, a journey that ended with his mom carrying him across the US border while he was still an infant. Guy revealed that he was one of millions of undocumented people living in the US.

Guy’s post sent far-right influencers on X into a feeding frenzy. JD Vance replied with a gif of Jack Nicholson from the movie Anger Management, slowly nodding his head with an intense, menacing look. A short time later, the official account of the Department of Homeland Security joined the fray.

The message to Guy was clear: we’re watching you. Vance and DHS did not respond to requests for comment about the posts.

Prominent far-right figures were ecstatic. Guy was aghast at the response. “The cruelty in today’s politics feels horribly corrosive,” he wrote.

Longtime critics of X pointed to the deportation threats as evidence of the platform’s perils.

Guy is still on X, using all of this week’s attention for what he sees as good causes. He also took time to taunt those calling for his deportation.