Here is the simplified news article:

Teenagers who show signs of being addicted to social media, mobile phones or video games are at greater risk of suicidal behaviour and emotional problems, according to research.

A study, which tracked more than 4,000 adolescents for four years, found that nearly one in three reported increasingly addictive use of social media or mobile phones. Those whose use followed an increasingly addictive trajectory had roughly double the risk of suicidal behaviour at the end of the study.

The findings do not prove screen use was the cause of mental health problems. But they highlight that compulsive use, which appears to be very common, as a significant risk factor that parents and healthcare services should be alert to.

Dr Yunyu Xiao, an assistant professor of population health sciences at Weill Cornell Medicine and first author of the study, said: “For parents and educators, the discussion around mobile phones and social media has focused on limiting or banning use, but our results indicate more complex factors are involved.”

The study tracked almost 4,300 adolescents aged nine to 10 when they started the study. Rather than simply measuring screen time, the scientists assessed participants for “addictive use”, such as whether technology was interfering with activities like schoolwork and exercise and whether people experienced craving or feelings of distress when screens were withdrawn.

For mobile phones, about half of the children reported high addictive use from the start of the study that remained high through early adolescence, and a quarter developed increasing addictive use as they aged. For social media, 41% of children had high or increasing addictive use. For social media and mobile phones, the high and increasing addictive use trajectories were associated with a two to three times greater risk of suicidal behaviours and suicidal ideation compared with the low addictive use trajectory.

More than 40% of the youths had a high addictive use trajectory for video games. These adolescents were significantly more likely to report suicidal thoughts or behaviours, as well as symptoms of anxiety, depression, aggression or rule-breaking.

By contrast, the total amount of time spent on social media, mobile phones and video games was not associated with future suicide-related or mental health outcomes. What mattered most was whether their use showed signs of compulsion, distress or loss of control.