Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and headlines removed:

A Cambridge University academic reflects on her social media storm. Dr Ally Louks, a supervisor in English Literature, posted a photo of her completed PhD thesis on social media, which attracted viral fame with over 120 million views. However, among the congratulations and interest in her subject, "the politics of smell", were many disturbing comments, misogynistic, accusatory, and personally threatening.

Reflecting on the experience three months on, she says: "This has undoubtedly changed my life... and while I would not wish this on anyone, it has given me a platform to speak positively about academia and research."

Dr Louks' subject explored "why certain writers of the past century use the language associated with smell to characterise harmful attitudes towards objects of disgust and desire". Her work looked at Hitler's claims about the smell of Jewish people in his book Mein Kampf, and how descriptions of the transatlantic slave trade were also used "to legitimize racism".

The comments included threats of rape and death. Within about 36 hours of her post, the haters got on board. "It was pretty all-consuming for the first week," she says. "Replies were coming in far faster than I could read them, so I wasn't sleeping much in an attempt to keep up with the conversation."

Dr Louks says she tried to approach the attention - both good and bad - in a positive way - and would advise anyone else to do the same. "The positive comments I received significantly outweighed the negatives, but the negative ones were liked and shared which boosted them to the top of my feed."

Dr Louks now has been assigned both a British and American literary agent. "It doesn't go over my head that the reason that I have all of these opportunities is because people responded to my work with such scepticism initially," she previously told the BBC.

Dr Louks says she received - and continues to receive - support from both her college and the university as a whole, which she describes as "really heartening". "This experience has undoubtedly changed my life... but in many ways this experience hasn't changed me."