Here is the news article with unnecessary parts, ads, author information, and titles removed:

A fifth of girls and young women in the UK have been "cyber-flashed" in the last year, and a similar number have faced sexual harassment, according to a study. The polling of females between the age of 13 and 21 who use social media found that more than a quarter had experienced bullying and more than one in three suffered sexual harassment.

The abuse, which includes 16% of girls and women facing pressure to share naked pictures of themselves, is having a "devastating impact", according to Angela Salt, the chief executive of Girlguiding, the charity that commissioned the research. Almost all of the 13- to 15-year-old girls who experienced the problems felt negative emotions ranging from anxiety to anger, depression and fear.

Those with disabilities were significantly more likely to have experienced sexist comments, bullying and pressure to share pictures of themselves compared to those without a disability. Only 15% of the 1,002 girls and young women polled last month believe social media is a safe place for them.

Eva, 11, told the Guardian she was bullied over Facebook Messenger aged nine, when school friends accused her of carrying out a sexual act with boys. "I didn’t understand," she said. "I was really confused by what they were saying". Her mother, Emma, said she felt "physically sick" when she found the messages.

Ministers are already facing pressure to toughen up online safety legislation going through parliament. MPs on the digital, culture, media and sport committee have criticised a draft bill as not "clear and robust enough to tackle the various types of illegal and harmful content on user-to-user and search services".

"Girls and young women should be able to use the internet freely, safely and without fear," said Salt. "Sadly, our research highlights that there is still a long way to go before this is reality, which is why we are calling on the government to ensure violence against girls and women online and its devastating impact is recognised and included within the online safety bill."